Anti Ragging Squad | Lloyd Institute, Delhi NCR
Source: https://liet.in/anti-ragging-squad

LIET
Anti Ragging Squad
A dedicated governance team driving responsible professionals and visionary leaders.
Anti-Ragging Squad
Functions & Responsibilities
Squads In charge will be responsible for the following in their areas:
They will form duty chart & carryout regular checks for any Ragging activity in their areas.
They will carry out surprise checks in probable areas of ragging.
In case of any incidence noticed on the spot, assessment of the incidence be made and necessary action to be taken and inform the control cell immediately in given Performa.
Ensure anti-ragging instructions are displayed at prominent places in their areas of control.
Each squad in charge will make detailed duty plan in respect of his squad and forward a list copy of the same to the control room.
Every squad in charge will brief all members of his squad about their duties / action regarding anti- ragging.
In case of inadequacy of the member detailed in their respective teams, they may float additional requirements to the in charge of anti-ragging committee.
The squad in-charge will collect the updated list of student including their latest address and phone no's in respect of the classes run in their blocks of their areas.
Any member of the squad not performing his duty properly will also be communicated to the control room as per the Performa given.
Squad In charge will maintain the proper duty attendance register in respect of the members of the squad and their duties.
SI. No.
Name
Designation
Position
Prof.
(Dr.) Rajeev Agrawal
Director
Chairman
Police
Administration Representative
Inspector
(Police Admin. Rep.), SHO
Mr. Manoj Kumar Vishwakarma
Assistant Professor
Member
Mr. Ganesh Maurya
Assistant Professor (ASH)
Mr. Mukesh Kumar
Assistant Professor (ME)
Dr. Vijay Kumar Yadav
Dr. Jitendra Mohan Giri
Professor & HoD (ME)
Dr. Vandana Kumari
Associate Professor(CSE)
Mr. Ashish Parmar
Dr. Rakesh Mohan Pujahari
Associate Professor (ASH)
Mr. Somesh Kamboj
Registrar
Mr. Vishal Bhati
Admin
