Which BTech branch is best for future? [A Complete Guide]
Source: https://liet.in/blog/which-b-tech-branch-best-for-future.html

Which BTech branch is best for future? [A Complete Guide]
Home
Which
BTech branch is best for future? [A Complete Guide]
08, April
2022
Introduction
Engineering, a very prominent branch of career and profession in today’s world, refers to
the number of processes, including designing, testing, developing, and building of
machines, which is done by application and analyzing of science, and B-Tech is referred
to as the professional undergraduate four-year degree program, which
B tech
specialization
in the field of engineering. B-Tech provides aspiring students
with all
the necessary and basic knowledge required to make a good career in engineering. In this
article, we will make an attempt to look at the branches of B-Tech and point out the
best B. Tech branch for the future, and why?
List of Most Popular B-tech Branches
The various B. Tech Branches have been discussed below:
1. Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) —
an eminent stream in today’s world,
where
technology makes up for almost everything. This stream covers matters related to
computation, programming languages, program design, computer hardware, and software and
integrates several fields of computer science. The stream has gained much recognition in
the current time and is popular among students who take computer science in 10+2.
2. Aeronautical Engineering—
it is the branch that teaches students how to work
with
aircraft, which includes studies regarding designing aircraft and propulsion systems and
studying the aerodynamic performance of aircraft and construction materials. B.Tech in
aeronautical engineering prepares the student, who wants to work as a researcher,
designer, and producer of aircraft, spacecraft, aerospace equipment, satellites, and
missiles.
3. Artificial Intelligence -
AI engineering basically focuses on developing tools,
systems, and processes, to be applied to the real world and guides the development,
functioning, and deployment of artificial intelligence.
4. Machine Learning-
It is a stream that studies computer algorithms that can
improve
automatically through experience and by the use of data. They focus on researching,
building, and designing self-running artificial intelligence (AI) systems to automate
predictive models.
5. Data Science-
It is a very broad stream, application of which includes health
sciences
and environmental sciences, to materials science, manufacturing, autonomous cars, image
processing, and cybersecurity. The study deals with the use of various tools and
techniques of science to extract relevant data from a large volume of data
6. Blockchain Engineering-
A student aspiring to be a blockchain engineer has to
study
everything that is required to perform the operations, designing, development,
analyzing, implementing, and supporting a distributed blockchain network.
7. Civil Engineering-
This discipline deals with the design, construction, and
maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment, including public works such
as roads, dams, airports, sewage systems, pipelines, and structural components of
buildings. Explore more about the
Civil Engineering
8. Mechanical Engineering-
This branch combines engineering physics and
mathematics
principles with materials science, and uses the collected/accumulated data to design,
analyze, manufacture, develop and look after the mechanical systems.
9. Electrical Engineering-
This branch deals with combining engineering physics
and
mathematics principles with materials science, to design, analyze, manufacture, and
maintain mechanical systems.
10. Electronics And Communication Engineering —
this branch of engineering deals
enhancing communication systems through technological intervention. Devices like mobile
phones, satellites, are a product of electronics and communication engineering. From
robotics to embedded systems, the scope of expansion in this field is immense.
How To Decide Which B-Tech Branch Is Best For You?
Mentioned below are the points, to determine which B-Tech branch is best for you:
1. Area of Interest—
It should be based on your own interest. For example, if a
candidate is interested in CSE, but takes aeronautical engineering as his/her major,
just because it is good in a particular university, there might be a conflict in
interest, and as engineering is quite a challenging subject, it might be hard for the
student to keep up with his or her grade.
2. Familiarity With Course Spectrum—
One should gain detailed knowledge about what
the particular branches deal with, and choose the major accordingly. Students should
have a general idea about the syllabus they are about to deal with if they choose a
specific subject.
3. Skill Enhancement—
The student should focus on his/her skills and capability.
This means, if somebody has good analytical capability, they should go for computer
science, and if somebody is interested in the working of pieces of machinery, they
should go for mechanical engineering.
4. Previous Record—
Students should try to contact the students of their previous
batches, to get an idea about what they have to deal with if they choose a particular
branch as their major in Btech.
The Best Branch of BTech in the Present Times
In a world such as today’s India,
Computer Science and Engineering, Or CSE,
undoubtedly the best branch of B.Tech. As computers and related gadgets form the
backbone of the current societal structure. Mentioned below are the reasons why CSE
leads the list of B.Tech branches, especially in 2022 where everything is based on
technology and computing systems!
There is a huge scope of placement, as the companies are constantly looking for
experts from this field. In fact, they have an advantage over the engineers from the
other branches, as placements from CSE are in abundance.
Not only India, other countries from all over the world are constantly searching for
experts. If we look at the list of people who have made a recognizable name in the world
of computer science, we will find quite a good number of names of people with Indian
backgrounds/nationalities.
There is a higher chance of you doing freelancing or working as an independent
technical consultant. This is common in CSE majors as they can work on multiple projects
and gain more experience and money.
With the growing use of computers and other technologies, we can very easily say that
computer science is not going to become irrelevant or unimportant, any time in the
future. In fact, there is a possibility that everything that is occurring in real life
today, will shift to online mode. For example, the pandemic has seen the shifting of the
education system from physical forms, to a completely online mode.
A student doesn't have to wait to become a graduate to start earning. With enough
skills, they can do internships, as companies requiring computer science interns are in
plenty.
It offers the students a range of programs. It gives a variety of opportunities to
students such as agile learning, campus placement, industry visits, guest lectures, etc.
Gaining expertise in computer science increases the student's analytical skills and
boosts problem-solving capabilities, which can be useful in both professional and
personal life.
Jobs in computer science are available in all locations, so students can choose to
work near home or away from home, as per their preferences.
It provides space for both individual projects and collaborative projects.
When one becomes a computer science engineer, he/she directly contributes to the
well-being of society and boosts the growth of the world and the country.
Conclusion
In this article, information regarding the variety of branches in B.Tech and the most
rewarding branch among all is given. This can be used as a reference to students who
want to pursue a career in B.Tech but are not sure about which branch will suit them
best. You can learn the basics of B.Tech courses from this article, and choose
accordingly. So prepare yourself for a strong engineering career right after the
completion of your 12th class, and start exploring the various options available to you!
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
