Top Engineering College in India Placement wise – LIET
Source: https://liet.in/blog/placement-wise-top-engineering-college-india.html

Top Engineering College in India Placement wise – LIET
Home
Top
Engineering College in India Placement wise – LIET
07,June
2021
Introduction
Why Should You Pursue Engineering?
The scope of engineering in India in the present times is peaking, and time and again this has
been emphasised profoundly through the number of students that get placed into reputable
corporations every year. These opportunities are enormous in quantity because of the
specialisations that persist in the engineering field, which is also to say that the demand for
professionals who can offer a technological breakthrough with the help of their updated
educational experience, strong theoretical understanding and knack for practical application of
these learnings, is never likely to shut down.
How Much Do Placements Matter?
Placements in any institution are of great significance as they’re the determinant of the value
that college holds in terms of richness, culture and prestige. Landing a good job that matches
the education a student has garnered through the institution is the eventual goal of every
graduate. Furthermore, placements are a vital aspect of a student’s long term vision before
taking admission in any institution. The sole purpose of academia is ultimately squeezed into
the ability of a student to prove employable. Not just to the students, placements matter a
great deal to all the three parties involved, the companies, the institution as well as the
student.
A college with a good placement status provides an edge to the graduates in proving themselves
as useful resources for the company, thereby serving the greater good. The economy thrives at
the hands of young, skilled and enthusiastic professionals who add up to the global development
of the country by making adequate use of skills and expertise taught to them through academia.
Moreover, the monetary worth of students is based on the kind of job offers they are able to
fetch. This not only acts as a motivating force but also drives the students to excel in
bringing worth to the company and become future assets to them.
Selecting the Best College Based On Placements
Now that we have established the vitality of placements in an institution, it is also crucial to
look at the criteria for selecting colleges with top-notch placement status. Given below are the
steps that you may follow to shortlist the best institution to pursue BTech from, based on thor
placement status.
Create a rough spreadsheet of your top 5 shortlisted colleges and along with details like
infrastructure, campus, distance, fees etc, enter their placement ranking as well. You can
refer to this document while comparing and going over individual colleges, to find out which
works best according to your suitability.
To find out the placement ranking, there are various sites available on the internet. You
can also read genuine reviews on prior placement experiences of students connected with the
alumni network on professional sites like Linkedin. One way would be looking up your alumni
and glancing at their present/ previous companies. Another includes connecting with them
personally and taking detailed feedback about the placement process of your shortlisted
institution.
Various national level organizations like NIRF rate the colleges all over the country by
taking full account of each and every aspect of the college. The basis of these ratings are
every parameter associated with the college, and a cumulative judgment is passed on the
basis
of which the scores are given. Placements are one of the criteria taken into consideration,
and the chances are the higher the ranking, the better the placement status.
There are fully detailed brochures that disclose the names of companies that visit the
college for recruitment every year. You can look up the quality and brand value of these
companies to estimate the placement status of the college. Every college releases an
individual brochure that reflects the number of students who got placed in that academic
year, along with the highest, as well as average annual packages.
Top 10
Engineering Colleges In India
Their Placement Percentage And The Companies That Come
For Recruitment.
Given below are the list of companies offering recruitment to these top 10 engineering
institutions, along with the percentage of students placed in one year. An important thing to
note is that the placement percentage depends vastly on a couple of factors that may or may not
differ each year. The most common of these factors include the following two reasons:
The number of companies participating in the placement drive of campuses varies each year
according to the availability of positions, budget, requirement and numerous other factors.
The competency of students, their ability to achieve distinction in the exams conducted by
companies, as well as their interview status.
S.No.
Name of the college
Companies offering recruitment
Placement Percentage
IIT Bombay
Google, Microsoft, Rubrik, IBM, SONY, Samsung, Accenture etc.
84.5%
Vellore Institute of Technology
Microsoft, PayPal, Morgan Stanley, Amazon, Lowe's, Cloudera, etc.
85%
BITS Pilani
Tata, KPMG, Genpact, Indiamart, Accenture, etc.
99%
NIT Trichy
AUDCO, BHEL, BEML, Accenture, Amanda Soft, etc.
90%
Delhi Technological University
Google, Adobe, Amazon, Deloitte, Samsung Research, Goldman Sachs, etc.
40%
Manipal Institute of Technology
Flipkart, Capgemini, L&T, Microsoft, Amazon, etc.
49%
SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai
SAP Labs, DBS, Goldman Sachs, Amazon, CISCO, etc.
56%
Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University College of Engineering, Pune
Vodafone, IBM, TCS, Honda, Merchant Navy, Sunguard, etc.
86%
Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, Prayag Raj
Bajaj, Adobe, Cognizant, Accenture, Ninjacart, Hindalco
64%
Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, Pune
Cognizant, Deloitte, Trident Group, Oracle, etc.
Top 10 Institutes For Engineering According To Average Salary Offered
After looking at placement percentage and the companies that come for recruitment in these top
10 engineering institutes, we’ll further have a look at the average annual salary (in Rs.)
offered by the following colleges arranged from highest to lowest package range. The packages
offered by IITs, NITs and CFTIs are comparatively higher than packages offered by private or
semi government institutions. However, the higher the package, the higher the difficulty level
of entrance exams that offer admission into these premier institutions. Even though the salary
offered by companies differ for different posts and different academic years, the average basic
salary remains more or less the same.
The average annual package offered (Rupees)
16 lakhs
10 lakhs
7.5 lakhs
7.2 lakhs
7 lakhs
6.6 lakhs
Bhartiya Vidyapeeth Deemed University College of Engineering, Pune
6 lakhs
5 lakhs
For different specialisations, a different set of companies visit the college. These companies
are top-tier renowned trade names and offer students a chance to work as high-rank
technologists. Thus, placements have a major role to play in influencing a student’s decision to
choose one college over another. That being said, there are other important criteria that must
be considered before students finalise a specific institution, like faculty, the scope of
research, accessibility of resources and many more.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
