B tech in Mechanical Engineering: Syllabus, Subjects, Salary
Source: https://liet.in/blog/b-tech-mechanical-engineering.html

B tech in Mechanical Engineering: Syllabus, Subjects, Salary
Home
04, May
2022
Introduction
Mechanical Engineering has long been known as the most powerful and flexible branch of
engineering,
as demonstrated by the diverse industries in which the graduates
work,
including auto parts, industrial production, manufacturing, mechatronics, material
handling, power generation, biomaterials, firmware, training, architecture, banking,
, and consultancy services.
Pursuing mechanical engineering in 2022, or any domain of
tech Course
per se is
practically a bane for students in the current scenario. A course as updated, diverse,
and ubiquitous as B-tech can help take the career’s growth metric for a student to
unmatched heights.
Syllabus and Curriculum of B-tech In Mechanical Engineering
The curriculum for
B-tech
mechanical engineering
is extensive. The understanding of
mathematics, science, and engineering basics is applied to generate answers to difficult
engineering issues in the B.Tech in Mechanical Engineering programme. Approximately the
curriculum tails components such as problem analysis and solution design to fit the
domain's particular requirements. To design an experiment, analyse and interpret data,
and synthesise meaningful results, research-backed knowledge and methodology are
necessary.
Students learn how to work efficiently both independently and in groups on a variety of
multidisciplinary subjects. Mechanical engineering students frequently have supervisory
roles, therefore project management is an integral aspect of the curriculum. The program
structure is divided into eight semesters and prepares students for varied technological
dynamics in the business world, and teaches them how to work with types of equipment and
system components more comprehensively through practical learning.
Semester Wise Subject Distribution
Mechanical engineers' key responsibilities include analyzing, conceiving, and designing
the best, most suitable, ergonomic, and procedural mechanical systems using mathematics
and science principles. For a myriad of purposes, this is a perennial professional
discipline. For mechanical engineering courses, these are some of the subjects and
semester-by-semester syllabus.
Semester 1
Semester 2
Engineering Mathematics
Engineering Mathematics 2
Basic Electronics
Engineering Graphics
Engineering Physics
Programming In Python
Introduction To C Programming/ Python
Material Science
Professional Communication Skills
Introduction To Mechanical Engineering
Semester 3
Semester 4
Special Functions And Statistics Applied Electrical Engineering
Fourier Series And Partial Differential Equations
Applied Electronics Engineering
Engineering Metallurgy Production Technology - II
Production Technology - I
Thermal Engineering
Strength Of Materials.
Mechanics Of Machines - I
Engineering Thermodynamics
Fluid Mechanics
Semester 5
Semester 6
Numerical Methods.
Turbomachines
Mechatronics
Automobile Engineering
Compressible Flow And Jet Propulsion
Design Of Mechanical Drives
Heat And Mass Transfer
Computer-Aided Design And Drafting
Mechanics Of Machines - II
Refrigeration And Air Conditioning
Analysis And Design Of Machine Components
Semester 7
Semester 8
Industrial Economics
Management Principles And Concepts
Power Plant Engineering Metrology And Quality Control
Resource Management Techniques
Oil Hydraulics And Pneumatics
Elective
Electives To Choose From
Project Work
Eligibility Criteria For Pursuing Mechanical Engineering In India
The eligibility for Btech ME is mostly similar across all institutions. Following are
some
of the criteria that students must satisfy to secure admission in an ME programme:
The applicant must have studied non-medical (physics, maths, and chemistry) in
their
12th standard.
The students must have secured 45-50% marks in their 12th standard, and 60% in
the
case of institutions of national importance.
The students must have passed their 12th from a recognised broad of education.
The candidate should have appeared for
engineering
entrance exams
like JEE mains
and advanced, or any other as stated by the preferred cullege.
B-tech Mechanical Engineering— Salaries
The starting salary of jobs after this course can begin roughly from INR 5 lakhs per
annum assuming the student has graduated from a tier 1 and tier 2 institution. If you
top this with say, an experience of 5-6 years in this line, the figure doubles and would
range somewhere between 8 to 10 lakhs. Likewise, the more experience you gain the higher
up the ladder your
mechanical
engineering career
climbs. The most fascinating aspect of
working in this sector is that the growth rate is immensely high. Students or young
fresher’s have a promising chance of establishing themselves as industry leaders if
their knowledge and background are par excellent.
Career Prospects after Mechanical Engineering in India— Industry Overview
Mechanical engineering's range and career opportunities are not only respectable but also
exciting in the coming years. Mechanical engineering degrees are constantly in high
demand since it is a foundational degree that is needed by practically every branch of
study. Here are some of the largest sectors that are continuously on the hunt for
qualified mechanical engineers:
Automotive manufacturing—
The car business, as one of the quickest
developing
industries, provides mechanical engineers with a wide range of options. Some of
world's most prestigious automobile manufacturers have gotten involved in the
recruitment of young talent for research and innovation of transit systems such
autonomous vehicles, high-speed trains, and spacecraft infrastructure, from
conception through production and even upkeep.
Mechatronics and Robotic —
Robotic process automation and technology
nowadays
are the brand - new topics of discussion. Just about every sector is seeking
ways to
improve productivity and save operating costs by implementing automation
solutions.
The execution of the same necessitates the monitoring and involvement of
qualified
mechanical engineers. Be it designing and building a new robotics technology or
using an automation process for stock management, mechanical engineers have
always
had a pivotal function in robotics and mechatronics.
Manufacturing—
Manufacturing is made possible by mechanical engineers. They
develop and manufacture the machinery and technologies that produce and
distribute
the items that our rising population relies on, whether it's high-volume,
mass-produced commodities or specialized, sleek hardware. They work on
devices that are further supplied to multiple industries to assemble, collate,
and
dispatch.
Top 10 Career Profiles after Btech ME And Average Starting Salary
Job Profile
Average Annual Salary
Systems Engineer
4.1 Lakhs
Power Engineer
4.2 Lakhs
Plant Engineer
6.5 Lakhs
Renewable Energy Consultant
3.13 Lakhs
Manufacturing Engineer
4.07 Lakhs
Packaging Engineer
5.3 Lakhs
Mechanical Device Engineer
3.2 Lakhs
Mechatronics Engineer
3.6 Lakhs
Process Development Engineer
6.36 Lakhs
Design Engineer
Scope of Pursuing Mechanical Engineering In 2022
The scope of the mechanical engineering subject provides students with employment
opportunities that extend beyond the sectors mentioned above. Whatever path they choose,
a mechanical engineering education provides students with the creative thinking skills
to create an exhilarating product or system; mathematical means of attaining their
design objectives; the ability to tackle all constrictions; and the team spirit required
to design, market, and produce a system. These significant talents may be used to
establish careers in a variety of other disciplines, including medical, law, consulting,
administration, banking, and .
Enroll for
B tech Admission
Conclusion
Mechanical engineering is certainly one of the most viable and advanced professional
fields as we progress toward a more mechanized society. Mechanical engineers are a
crucial force in preserving and changing communities due to their substantial effect on
innovation and the development, construction, and maintenance of efficient mechanical
components. Students can become successful future engineers by combining a very well
bachelor's program with internships, Cooperative Education programmes, research work,
and summer employment prospects, as well as industrial training.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
