Career options after Engineering – A Complete Guide
Source: https://liet.in/blog/btech-fees-structure.html

Career options after Engineering – A Complete Guide
Home
Career
options after Engineering – A Complete Guide
18, April
2022
Introduction
B Tech a.k.a. Bachelor of Technology has persistently been one of the most sought after
courses for ages. Pursuing engineering has always appealed to the students, not to
forget the sea of options of career it bestows one with. The students are so enthralled
by the
B Tech Course
that in India,
almost twenty-five lakh students enroll themselves in
this course every year. This 4-year course makes a student well equipped to come out
with flying colors in any kind of technical or managerial field. B Tech is an
undergraduate academic degree that provides skill-oriented courses.
Duration of B Tech:-
A B Tech course typically includes 4 years and 8
semesters.
Eligibility Criteria for securing admission into B Tech Course:-
Since the seats for B Tech are always in demand, there exists a cut-throat competition
for the same. Securing a seat in this course is usually done based on various entrance
examinations like JEE, AIEEE, etc. Given below are some of the basic requirements a B
Tech aspirant must fulfil to pursue this course.
The candidate must have Past 10 + 2 with a minimum of 50% aggregate
The candidate must have Pursuit that 10 + 2 Hindi science stream which mandatorily
included the subjects of mathematics for physics and Chemistry
The candidates must have passed that 10 + 2 from a recognised institution
affiliated to a recognised board of Education
Qualifying in JEE is not necessary for taking admission to the B Tech course. However, if
one aims to secure a seat in the most prestigious institutions of the country like IITs,
NITs, taking the JEE or any other entrance examination at par with it and scoring well
is important. Some institutions even conduct their entrance examination.
Why opt for B Tech?
B Tech has managed to keep its position as a promising course intact. The prospects in
this field are bright and prosperous. The field of engineering never loses its
importance as far as bagging a good
career
options after engineering
is concerned. The B
Tech degree gives a student a plethora of options to choose from. Some of the popular
streams or specialisations one can opt for under this degree include—
Computer Science and Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Electronics and Communication Engineering
Aeronautical Engineering
Communications Engineering
Information Technology
Electrical Engineering
Electronics Engineering
Petroleum Engineering
Structural Engineering
Genetic Engineering
Mechatronics Engineering
Industrial Engineering
Biotechnology Engineering, etc.
B Tech not only promises a student with a promising career but also provides them ample
job opportunities in their specific area of interest. Besides the aforementioned points,
there is more to it-
B Tech furnishes a student with a good career
It helps to acuminate their skills
Ample jobs to choose from, both in the private and public sector
Recruitments as researchers, consultants and subject matter experts
Good scope of higher studies
High level of job satisfaction
Variety of career options
Development of core and soft skills
Pose different challenges at work to develop interest
Provides proper financial security
Helps one secure a good position and reputation in the society
Engineers can pioneer scientific and technological breakthroughs thus making the
world a better place to live in.
The B Tech aspirants need to be thorough about the institution that provides the
opportunity to pursue
B Tech in various streams
and the fees charged
by them so that
they may take another step toward realizing their dream.
Premier Government Institutions That Provide B Tech Degrees
S.No.
Name Of The Institution
Fee Structure
IIT Madras
Rs 8,91,000
IIT Delhi
Rs 8,47,000
IIT Bombay
Rs 8,83,000
IIT Kanpur
Rs 8,38,000
IIT Kharagpur
Rs 8,32,000
NIT Trichy
Rs 5,63,000
IIT Indore
Rs 8,75,000
Institute Of Chemical Technology, Mumbai
Rs 3,41,000
Jadavpur University, Kolkata
Rs 9,600
NIT Warangal
Rs 5,00,000
IIEST, Shibpur
Rs 5,68,000
Delhi Technological University, New Delhi
Aligarh Muslim University, New Delhi
Rs 10,63,000
JamiaMiliaIslamia, New Delhi
Rs 64,600
NIT Durgapur
Premier Government Institutions That Provide B Tech Degree
Vellore Institute of Techn ology, Vellore
Rs 7,83,000
School of Engineering Coimbatore
Rs 13,13,000
Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology
Rs 17,08,000
BITS Pilani
Rs 19,19,000
SRM Institute of Science and Technology Chennai
Rs 16,10,000
KIIT School of Engineering ,Bhubaneswar
Rs 14,75,000
Birla Institute of Technology korma Mishra
Rs 12,32,000
Chandigarh University
Rs 8,48,000
Lovely Professional University
Rs 7,68,000
Manipal Institute of Technology
Rs 17,90,000
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering
Rs 2,65,000
R V College of Engineering, Bengaluru
Rs 3,34,000
DhirubhaiAmbani IICT Gandhinagar
Rs 6,88,000
Amity School Of Engineering and Technology, Noida
Rs 10,16,000
MS Ramiah Institute of Technology, Bengaluru
Rs 11,54,000- Rs 17,54,000
Important Things to Know About B Tech Fees in India:
The fees of separate institutions are distinct from each other based on the
infrastructure, facilities, quality of education imparted, etc. Usually, the fees of
government colleges are quite less compared to that of private colleges because private
colleges are usually run by various trusts, organisations and individuals. Moreover,
this is a technical course that includes extensive lab work. To provide adequate
infrastructure and equipment and to maintain a satisfactory quality of the facilities a
student can avail, the general fee structure of colleges furnishing
B Tech degrees
B Tech
degrees is
quite higher than normal.
How to Make B Tech Cost-Effective?
Opt for government engineering colleges by cracking any entrance exam
Apply for different scholarships provided by the college or the government
Cut down daily unnecessary expenses like expensive food and drinks
Apply for various part-time jobs and try to find a paid internship
Try to save as much money as possible
Save money on commute by walking to the college
Go for a college that’s closer to where you’re staying
Partake in paid competitions in your interest area and aim to win
Alternatively, try tutoring students physically or on online portals
Use more community resources like books from the library instead of buying
To Sum Up
Although all other sectors have seen a decline in their popularity over the decades, B
Tech continues to be a popular career choice of most students pursuing pure science in
their 10+2 level. This course supplies with an educative arrangement that assists one to
advance smoothly into their professional life. This course makes a student think beyond
the mainstream thought of the masses thus making the person stand out amidst the crowd.
It helps to develop critical and innovative thinking aptitude. Moreover, the lucrative
placements with handsome packages have made B Tech a covetable degree to own. Another
great thing about B Tech is that it comes with a multitude of specializations catering
to the interests and long term career aspirations of individual students.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
