Aeronautical Engineering career Path - A complete Guide
Source: https://liet.in/blog/aeronautical-engineering-career-options.html

Aeronautical Engineering career Path - A complete Guide
Home
Tech Biotechnology: Course, Eligibility, Admission Process [Updated]
12, April
2022
Introduction
Every year in India, countless innumerable students clearing their 12th boards, with
science stream, opt for engineering, and among the various streams of engineering,
aeronautical engineering has attracted the attention of many students in recent times.
Aeronautical engineering basically refers to the science that deals with the study,
planning, designing, and techniques, which are involved in operating aircraft, and
prepares the engineer with skills for designing, making, analyzing, and testing
commercial/military aircraft, missiles, and spacecraft. Studying the course from a
recognized college can promise the students a favorable lifestyle in the future. But to
do that, the student must have a clear idea of what the career path of aeronautical
science entails. Thus in this article, the specifications regarding aeronautical
engineering shall be discussed in detail.
Why should you Pursue Aeronautical engineering in 2022?
1. Availability of Jobs
As a student, you may wonder, why should you choose
aeronautical engineering
amongst all
the other streams? In the world of today, people are increasingly inclined toward
science, and even people in streams, other than science, are also intrigued by new
scientific discoveries and inventions. What happens in outer space, which planet has
water, which planet can possibly be survivable for human beings, all these have been
flaming topics of discussion. And to make those discoveries, well-made and
well-functioning aircraft are of utmost importance. Secondly, every country is in search
of better security for the country and the world as a whole, and thus comes the need for
military aircraft and missiles. Moreover, aeronautical science has gained popularity in
recent days, and thus a comparatively lower number of people apply for it. Thus, there
are a large number of companies and organizations in need of aeronautical scientists.
2. Favorable Salary
As aeronautical science requires precision and huge expertise, once you get hired, the
salary is comparably high to other fields in engineering and can assure you a
satisfactory lifestyle. Graduates can also earn a good sum, working as an engineer, and
can do work like designing vehicles, designing the tools used to repair aircraft, or
overseeing the production process.
3. A Subject With A Huge Prospect
Aeronautical engineering is continually gaining recognition in today’s world, and the
chance of it being irrelevant or unnecessary is null. Secondly, aeronautical engineering
prepares the students for not only designing air and space crafts but also includes
components from other fields, which can provide the student with great opportunities in
not only the companies dealing with aeronautics but also the other engineering sites.
Also read about the -
Computer
science vs Computer Engineering
Choices of Paths after Completing Aeronautical Engineering
1. Grossing Companies Hiring
There are jobs available in the Indian air force, defense ministry, airlines, research
agencies like NASA and ISRO for aeronautical engineers. In India, OEMs are also opening
branches that need a large number of aeronautical engineers.
2. Government Sectors
Defense Research and Development Laboratories (DRDO), Hindustan Aeronautics Limited
(HAL), Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA), Air India, National Aerospace Laboratories
(NAL), civil aviation department (DGCA) are top recruiters in the government sectors,
who are in need of aeronautical engineers in abundance.
3. Private Sectors
Private companies such as Bharat Electronics Ltd., BrahMos Aerospace Pvt Ltd., Honeywell
Aerospace, Altran India, Taneja Aerospace & Aviation Ltd., Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing
Company, Mahindra Aerospace. Moreover, there are a large number of start-ups that deal
with manufacturing and consulting, which need the expertise of aeronautical engineers.
There are also airlines such as Indigo, Spicejet, Air India, etc, which recruit
aeronautical engineers.
4. Other Important Sectors Where Aeronautical Engineers Are Recruited:
Engineers specializing in aeronautics can also work as graduate engineer trainees, in
racing car companies, as Aircraft Production engineers, Assistant Technical Officers,
and Air safety officers, and as space scientists in government organizations. Students
can also do their post-graduation to gain the utmost expertise in the field, in the
search for better jobs.
5. Abroad
Aeronautical engineers hold the expertise to fetch the best-paid jobs both in India and
abroad, with salaries as high as $1 Million. If a student wishes to settle down in
foregin countries, they can even apply for a job overseas.
High Paying Job
after B tech
Job Profiles and Job Descriptions of Aeronautical Engineers
Following are a broad overview of what falls under the job spectrums of aeronautical
engineers.
Sr No.
Job profiles
Job descriptions
Aerodynamic Engineers
Test aerospace designs like the bodies of the aircraft and propulsion
systems and make sure that they meet the needed specifications and conform
to the law of aerodynamics so that everything can function properly.
Aircraft design engineers
They are the main designer of airplanes and other aircraft, and they focus
on factors and dimensions of the flight with the atmosphere.
Aircraft designers
Studies the performance of the aircraft and construction materials, along
with designing aircraft and propulsion systems.
Aircraft engineers
Looking after the assembling of the engines, testing the aircraft to check
the performance, recognizing areas of improvement, designing specifications,
and applying scientific principles for the betterment of performance.
Astronautical engineers
They work with the science and technology of the vessel and test how they
perform both inside and outside of the atmosphere.
Flight system test engineers
Have the responsibility of testing and planning a specific flight test
phase, and plan in conjunction with other aeronautical engineers, to oversee
the total buildup of the aircraft.
Rocket engineers
Design and look after the manufacturing of rockets.
Wind tunnel engineers
They are Involved in tunnel building projects.
Job Profiles and Average Annual Salary
Average annual salary may vary from company to company but the following data will
provide you with a range idea that CTC oscillates between. Sometimes, these salaries may
go as high as INR 25 Lakhs depending upon the skill, experience, and time in the
industry.
Average salary
Aerodynamic engineer
Rs 1036770
Aircraft design engineer
Rs 8.6 lakhs per year
Rs 40813
Rs 781594
Rs 813073
Rs 29238 per month
Around 8 lakhs Rs
Rs 3 lakhs to Rs 20.8 lakhs
Overview of the course
Students pursuing math and physics in the 12th standard can apply for the graduation
course.
Speed and accuracy, analytical ability, normal color vision, physical fitness,
presence of mind, leadership qualities, and technical aptitude are necessary to make
a career in the course.
The main subjects are material sciences, fluid dynamics, propulsion, structural
analysis, and study of aircraft structure and aircraft performance.
Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO), Indian Air Force, Air India, Tata
Advanced Systems, Defense Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Indian Air
Force, Air India, Tata Advanced Systems, indigo, boeing etc are some of the top
names in the industry that offer lucrative jobs to candidates. F
Conclusion
Aeronautical engineering is one of the most complicated fields and requires a lot of
dedication and hard work to do well in the field. This article can help aspiring
students with the necessary information, to know about what their career paths may
entail if they take up aeronautical engineering as their major. Aeronautical engineers
have the capability of stirring up the knowledge of what is known today about aircraft
and spacecraft.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
