How’s the placement in B tech Private College in Delhi NCR
Source: https://liet.in/blog/placement-in-btech-private-college.html

How’s the placement in B tech Private College in Delhi NCR
Home
How’s
the placement in B tech Private College in Delhi NCR
21,July
2021
Introduction
Why Is Doing Btech In 2021 Beneficial?
Along with being a field with one of the most diverse branches in the domain of
technology, pursuing a BTech in 2021 comes with its own share of advantages. The
distribution in the concentration of knowledge in engineering
makes up a very versatile, futuristic, and instructive curriculum. The structure of
education that entails engineering puts the students ahead of the technological
developments and advances taking place and allows them
to bring in a positive contribution to the process. Technology has also become the
backdrop of every thriving business, especially in times of disruptive digital
transition. BTech degree in 2021 along with holding up the
professional edge, is also personally rewarding in terms of career growth avenues,
leadership potential, as well as pecuniary benefits.
Why Does A Placement Status Of A College Matter?
The placement status of a college determines its potential of catering to the long-term
career goals of a student. When it comes to campus recruitment, it is mutually
beneficial to all the three parties involved — the institution, the companies, and the
students. Through placements via college, resources get consolidated in one space and
become viable, which in turn, saves the time of students looking to work and companies
looking to hire.
Secondly, a subtle assurance about the credibility of both parties underlines this
charade. This also significantly increases the chances of the students actually getting
hired right after their degree is completed. In the case of engineering, getting
placements outside of campus can be tricky because of the competitive nature of the
degree. For this reason, it is often best to check the placement rating of the college
on various education portals like Shiksha, Saryagyan, Collegedunia, and Careers360, as
well as read the organic reviews to get an insight into the actual system
List Of Top 12 Private Colleges With Their Placement Percentage
Placement percentage acts as a standard criterion to enlist the viable colleges and
understand their placement metrics in a nutshell. The following is a list of the top 12
colleges all over India offering BTech programs and the placement percentage for the
latest academic year of the college. This should give you an insight into the campus
recruitment record of the colleges.
Sno.
Name of the college
Placement percentage(latest academic year)
Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal
83.42%
SRM Institute of Science and Technology Chennai
72.22%
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering Bangalore
75% and above
Vellore Institute of Technology Vellore
95%
BharatiVidyapeeth Deemed University College of Engineering Pune
89-90%
Birla Institute of Technology Pilani
99%
Shiv Nadar University Greater Noida
93-95%
Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Technology Delhi
60%
KJ Somaiya College of Engineering Mumbai
75%
Nirma University Ahmedabad
KIIT University
80-90%
Chandigarh University
60-70%
Top Private Colleges And Companies Offering Campus Placement
Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal: Goldman Sachs, ICICI Lombard, Oracle GTA,
Oyo Rooms, Reliance Industries, KPMG, L&T construction, Mahindra & Mahindra PPO,
Samsung R&D, Impetus, Deloitte, Cactus Communications, and more.
SRM Institute of Science and Technology Chennai: Tata Consultancy Services, Tata
Chemicals, Ford, L&T integrated, Google, HSBC, Wipro, Cognizant, Cafe Coffee Day,
Deloitte, Hindustan Unilever Limited, Accenture, Johnson Control Ltd.
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering Bangalore: Infosys, HCL, Accenture, IBM,
WIPRO, Mercedes Benz, SASKEN, Tech Mahindra, Mahindra Satyam, NOKIA, TESCO, Novell
Software Ltd., Cap Gemini, I Gate, HP, Mphasis, Volvo, KPIT, HSBC, Thomson
Reuters, D-Link, Oracle.
Vellore Institute of Technology Vellore: Infosys, Yamaha, ITC, Toshiba, Google,
Amazon, Microsoft, Tata, Honeywell, Volvo, IBM, swiggy, escorts, MRF, Godrej,
Britannia, Sapient, Whirlpool, Myntra, Ernst & Young, Oracle, Qualcomm, Titan,
Hyundai, Mahindra , Yatra.com, and more.
BharatiVidyapeeth Deemed University College of Engineering Pune: Emirates Dubai,
Qatar Petroleum, Musigma, Amazon, Willis Tower Watson, HSBC, J. P. Morgan, Jaro
Education, GE Digital, Veritas, Trident, Ashe Marketing, Business Octane, TCS
(Digital), KPIT, Capgemini, Byju’s, Hitachi, Infosys, Accenture.
Birla Institute of Technology Pilani: Facebook, Flipkart, Accenture, Genpact, KPMG
India, Microsoft, Oracle, TCS, Dell, Deloitte, HCL Technologies, Myntra, Whirlpool,
Cap Gemini, JP Morgan, byju's, Oyo rooms, HDFC Life, Cipher Technologies, Amazon,
Adobe, IBM, Maruti Suzuki, etc.
Shiv Nadar University Greater Noida: Cognizant, Adobe, Goldman Sachs, Dell, Bank of
America, Omax, Larsen and Toubro, Tata consultancy services, Amazon, American
Express, Titan company, IBM, Morgan Stanley, HCL, HP, Paytm, Infosys.
Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Technology Delhi: Accenture, Wipro, Infosys, interra
systems, Cognizant, Indian Air Force, global logic, new gen, Tata Power, Hitachi
Consulting, azcom, Sapient, HT Media, Amazon, HSBC, Expedia, Boston Consulting
Group, sanmar group, Holisol, etc.
KJ Somaiya College of Engineering Mumbai: Cisco Partner, Microsoft, Mahindra Rise,
Tata, Infosys, Accenture, Deloitte, Oracle Financial Services, Cap Gemini, L&T
Infotech, Godrej, Suzuki, and more.
Nirma University Ahmedabad: GVK power and infra, Nokia, Adani group, ICICI
Prudential, Berger, Godrej and Boyce, Geometric Limited, HCL Infosystems, Hindustan
Unilever Limited, Citibank, Samsung, Deloitte, Oracle, idea, IBM, Aditya Birla
Group, Ranbaxy Laboratories.
KIIT University: Accenture, McKinsey & Company, Bajaj Auto, Cognizant, Escorts,
Reliance Jio, GE Healthcare, Hindustan Unilever, Upgrad Education, IBM, HSBC, Tech
Mahindra, L&T Technology, Amazon, Byju’s, CapGemini.
Chandigarh University: Microsoft, Amazon, IBM, Hewlett Packard, SAP Labs,
Hitachi, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, Grail Research, TAFE, John Deere, Schindler,
Cognizant Technologies Solutions India Pvt Ltd (CTS), Capgemini India Pvt Ltd, Wipro
Limited, Tata Consultancy Services Ltd (TCS), DXC Technology India Private Limited.
Important Factors to Know About Campus Placements
While the names of these companies themselves are a testament to the number of
ways they can benefit a student, it is always advisable to look at the highest,
lowest, and average annual package being offered.
Instead of scrounging through the education portals for the placement record of a
college, the students should visit the official website of the institution, go to
the placement portal, and check the statistics there.
Almost every college or university releases an information brochure which entails
every single detail about the placement including the year-wise growth chart, the
names of the companies, the number of students placed every year, the total number
of companies visiting the campus, and every other minute detail. The students must
go through these information brochures thoroughly before finalizing a college.
When it comes to shortlisting and finalizing a college, placements are not the
only criteria that should be looked up independently, but in a combination with
several other facts of higher education like courses offered, location, resources,
infrastructure, faculty record, and various others.
Conclusion
Lastly, the placement percentage might be a good mark of identifying your future
opportunities with regards to the college that you choose, but it must also be noted
that individual capabilities are not determined by a mere percentage. The percentage of
placement of a college is also driven by the future goals of students studying there.
Some might want to pursue higher education, some might want to pursue a degree in an
unrelated field, and some might want to do a different thing altogether. However, campus
placements in private colleges will always be the most effective determinant of the long
term career path, as initial opportunities are a kickstart to where a student will
professionally land some years later, and thus, should always be kept in mind while
searching for the perfect college that meets your suitability both professionally and
personally.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
