Blogs - Lloyd Institute of Engineering and Technolog
Source: https://liet.in/blog

Best Engineering Courses After 12th: Career, Specialization and more
When it comes to engineering education in India, students have access to some of the finest ...
Read
More
Top 20 Engineering Colleges in India: Ranking, fees, Placement and more
What to Do after BTech: Top Career Options for Engineering Graduates
Completing a Bachelor of Technology (B Tech) is a significant milestone...
Top 10 Private Engineering Colleges in India – Fees, Ranking, Placement and more
When it comes to pursuing an engineering degree, India boasts some of ...
Diploma Courses in Engineering and Technology After 10th
When you finish your 10th grade, the world feels like an open highway ...
Master of Computer Application (MCA): Eligibility, Syllabus, and Duration
If you’re passionate about technology and aspire to build a career in the IT world...
Career Options After B Tech - Explore Complete Career Details
So, you’ve completed your B Tech Course and are standing at a crossroads...
B tech: Course details, Admission, Fees, Registration and more
The Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) is a four-year undergraduate ...
B Tech IT Course Details: Course
Details, Fees, Eligibility, Admission Process, Career Scope & Jobs, Syllabus
Pursuing a Bachelor of Technology (B Tech) degree ..
B Tech Admission Guide:
Application Form, Eligibility, Fees and more
Diploma in
Engineering (Polytechnic): Course Details, Fees, and Colleges
Are you passionate about engineering but seeking a more direct route to jumpstart your
career..
B.Tech
Lateral Entry: Course, Colleges, Admission process
Are you a diploma holder aspiring to elevate your engineering career with a BTech ...
Aerospace Engineering: Course Details, Admission & Career Scope
Aerospace engineering, a fascinating blend of science and innovation....
CUET Exam Details – Exam Pattern,
Important Dates, Fees, Test Practice center
CUET stands for the Common University Entrance Test. This test is managed and conducted by
the National Testing Agency (NTA) ....
BCA (Bachelor of Computer
Applications) Course Details - An Overview
BCA stands for Bachelor of Computer Applications. It is an undergraduate program spanning
around three years that ....
B Tech
agriculture: Course Details , Admission, Syllabus and Scope
Consumerism has affected all sectors of the ....
Top
MCA Course Specializations in India – Which one is Best
MCA, which stands for Master in Computer Application....
BCA
and MCA Article
In the realm of modern education, where technology-driven advancements are transforming
industries ....
Top 5 Engineering
College in India
Everyone needs a good private education for children, and everyone wants to graduate
from a government institution or college ....
Top Aeronautical
Engineering Colleges in
India
Aeronautical Engineering is a discipline of engineering that studies the ideas
and
technologies used to plan ....
B tech in Mechanical
Engineering: Syllabus,
Subjects, Salary
Mechanical Engineering has long been known as the most powerful and flexible branch
of engineering, as demonstrated by the ....
What is the
highest paid
engineering [A Complete Guide]
Engineering is an ever-adulated discipline by the students. Students from all over ....
B tech
Course list and Specialization in India
B Tech a.k.a. Bachelor of Technology has persistently been one of ....
Fees Structure in India – A Complete
Guide
Career options after
Engineering – A
Complete Guide
Engineers have a vital role to play in India's rapidly evolving economy. The adequate ....
Biotechnology: Course,
Eligibility, Admission Process [Updated]
Bachelor of technology in biotechnology, or B Tech Course, is a 4-year undergraduate
program ....
Aeronautical
Engineering career
Path - A complete Guide
Every year in India, countless innumerable students clearing their 12th boards, with
science stream ....
Which BTech branch
is best for future?
[A Complete Guide]
Engineering, a very prominent branch of career and profession in today’s world,
refers to the ....
How to become a software
Engineer After 12th [Guide]
Software engineers are trained professionals tackling computer systems and
applications ....
highest paying jobs
after B-Tech - A
complete Guide!
Engineering, currently, is the topmost course pursued by students from the
non-medical stream ....
Btech IT
Computer science engineering subjects in first year
What are the Computer Science Subjects in first Year? Get the list of Computer
Science Engineering Subject taught ....
(Information Technology) Syllabus and Subjects – Semester wise
B-tech IT is a professional program that focuses on the development, implementation,
application, and administration ....
tech Entrance Exam List, Syllabus and Dates
There are around 250 engineering entrance exams in India, conducted every year for
students who want ....
Btech Civil engineering
Syllabus, Admission
Procedure and career Scope
Civil engineering is often referred to as the "mother of all engineering" because it
is the oldest form of ....
CSE (Computer Science)
syllabus [updated 2022]
B-Tech computer science is currently one of the most popular technical curricula. The
introduction of ....
Top Engineering
College In Greater
Noida
The technology sector in India at this stage is practically booming. This has
happened in the last decade ....
Top Engineering College in
Noida, Greater
Engineering in India is known to be one of the most prestigious professions to go
after ....
Scholarships
for Btech
Engineering Students in India: All about It
Engineering as a career option has its own set of benefits. From easy employability
to high salary ranges ....
B. Tech
Computer Science
Syllabus 2021 – Semester Wise
B. Tech computer science is one of the most popular courses in the present times. The
reason behind this increased....
Best Job Oriented
Courses after B tech
Training courses are short-term professional certifications that can enhance the
value of the....
B.Tech Lateral Courses and
Admission Eligibility
Lateral entry is an innovative way of getting admission into BTech engineering
programs.....
Government Jobs
AfterBTech
In engineering, you don’t just study technical things, you also gain moral and
intellectual .....
B.tech Placement In
Private Colleges
Along with being a field with one of the most diverse branches in the domain of
technology.....
Engineering
Entrance Exam Date
Calendar 2021
Find the list of Engineering Entrance exam date 2021, List of all Engineering.....
Jee Mains Entrance Exam
Application Date, Form
2021
The joint entrance exam, also known as JEE MAINS is a national level exam, and one of.....
Tips to Crack
Engineering Entrance
Exam – LIET
If you're looking to crack JEE mains or any other engineering exam in one attempt,.....
B.Tech Admission 2021 Delhi
NCR – All about it
As one academic year has passed, obscured in the shadows of a global pandemic.....
Career Options After
B.Tech Mechanical
Mechanical engineering as a profession deals with the research, designing, and.....
Career
Options After B.
Tech Electronics and Communication Engineering
Humankind as a whole thrives on communication. Right from the everyday conversations.....
B.Tech Civil
Engineering - LIET
Whether we talk about building a flyover, a water treatment plant, an aircraft, or a.....
career options
after b. tech computer
science
Computer science is the study of computers and computing as well as their theoretical.....
Tech Civil Engineering Admission 2021 – Fees, Eligibility, Process
Civil engineering is considered to be the oldest form of engineering, and for this.....
B. Tech Computer
Science Engineering
(CSE) - Course Details, Admissions, Fees
A computer science engineer is a person who engages directly in software development,.....
Top 10 Engineering
Entrance Exams List For
One thing about engineering that makes it the best profession of all time is that.....
colleges
offer admission without JEE Main Score
JEE mains exam is known to be the most widely accepted engineering entrance exam in.....
B. Tech in Electrical
Engineering 2021
Courses, Exams, Eligibility
Engineering has been an evergreen profession for the longest of time, which makes it.....
Top 10
Engineering Colleges In
India Placement Wise
The scope of engineering in India in the present times is peaking, and time and again.....
Top (B. Tech)
Computer Science &
Engineering Colleges in UP
Home to one of the most prominent areas of the national capital region, Noida, Uttar.....
Top B. Tech
Delhi NCR
After management, engineering is probably the most secure, conventional, and more.....
Load More
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
