B. Tech Computer (CSE) - Course Details, Admissions, Science Engineering Fees
Source: https://liet.in/blog/b-tech-computer-science-engineering.html

B. Tech Computer (CSE) - Course Details, Admissions, Science Engineering Fees
Home
Tech Computer (CSE) - Course Details, Admissions, Science Engineering Fees
16,June
2021
Introduction
What Is Computer Science Engineering
A computer science engineer is a person who engages directly in software development,
programming, computer languages, operating systems, maintaining databases, interfaces, and all
other things related to computing. It is the science of working with software systems to grow
businesses and cater to new forms of innovation. Computer science engineering, thus, is said to
be that branch of engineering that involves designing and developing computer algorithms to
favour purposeful outcomes for enterprises.
Scope of pursuing Btech in CSE in 2021
Btech in computer science engineering in 2021 is the most widely pursued program because of its
relevance and relativity to present times. The advent of digitalisation has transformed the
entire outlook of business companies and their operating potential. With more and more companies
venturing into the realm of digital marketing, the need for techno-savvy individuals with strong
expertise in computer science dynamics has been increasing at an alarming rate. This has made it
possible for CSE graduates to gain employability through their skills and knowledge and put it
to the right use.
Along with this, the start-up culture in India in 2021 has gained momentum, which has a lot to do
with entrepreneurial competencies embedded in students pursuing CSE. This has widened the scope
of opportunities available to computer science engineering graduates, thereby adding to job
security. This may perhaps be the only branch of engineering that is immune to a recession by
all means. This means that CSE is currently the most promising and profitable specialisation in
engineering and the best career choice for students looking forward to setting foot in digital
systems.
Curriculum Of Computer Science Engineering
Like any other branch of engineering, the curriculum of computer science engineering is
comprehensively divided into eight semesters spanning a total of four years. Starting from the
basics, the syllabus progresses into subjects that hold importance as per the current trends and
technology. This allows the students to enhance their grip on subjects from the foundational
levels and ensures sequential learning without missing out on the essential strengthening of
core concepts. The particular thing about the curriculum of CSE is that the changes and up
gradation in technologies are so frequent that the scope of a curriculum being outdated is
almost impossible. This means the students only learn what’s relevant with the market today, and
gain a hold of subjects that will complement their practical application in developing a solid
workforce for the future. In computer science engineering, the curriculum contains core
subjects, electives along with balanced periods of the lab and each subject is allotted set
points of credit that students must achieve. All the subjects and requirements are explained in
detail in the curriculum which students are supposed to focus on every semester to get promoted
to the next one. It acts as a blueprint for the entire program.
Subjects Taught Under Computer Science Engineering
The subjects taught to computer science students are in accordance with upcoming verticals
evolving in the digital fields. Various new subjects like robotics and automation, artificial
intelligence, the internet of things and many more are getting introduced as a part of the
curriculum. Following is a list of some of the core subjects taught under BTech in computer
science. While some of these subjects are mandatory for all engineering domains, others towards
the last semesters are specific only to computer science engineering.
Introduction To Computer Programming
Linear Algebra And Ordinary Differential Equations
Data Analysis And Interpretation
Abstractions And Paradigms In Programming
Data Structures And Algorithms
Automatic Theory And Logic
Software Systems
Computer Architecture
Database And Information Systems
Artificial Intelligence
Implementation Of Programming Languages
Computer Networks
Computational Models In Pattern Recognition
Software Engineering
Machine Learning
Principles Of Programming Languages
Introduction To Wireless Networks
Functional And Logic Programming
Top 10 Colleges Offering Computer Science Engineering In 2021 With Their Fees
There are a plethora of institutions in India that offer the degree of BTech in computer science,
including both the private and the public ones. Even if the students do not score high enough to
get admission into top-ranking colleges for CSE in India, there are just enough colleges for
every student that wishes to pursue a career in computer science engineering. Following is a
list of top institutions in India offering computer science engineering along with their fees.
Government Colleges For CSE And Their Fees
S.No.
Name of the college
Fees
Indian Institute of Technology Madras
8.20 lakhs
Delhi Technological University Delhi
7.81 lakhs
College of Engineering Trivandrum
1.8 lakhs
Punjab Engineering College Chandigarh
6.99 lakhs
JNTUH College of Engineering Hyderabad
82k
Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar
5.66 lakhs
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology Nagpur
5.38 lakhs
Indian Institute of Technology Banaras Hindu University Varanasi
8.58 lakhs
National Institute of Technology Delhi
6.37 lakhs
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur
8.31 lakhs
Private Colleges For CSE And Their Fees
Lloyd Institute of Engineering and Technology Greater Noida
5.6 lakhs
DayanandSagar College of Engineering Bangalore
3.89 lakhs
SRM Institute of Science and Technology Chennai
9.5 lakhs
Vellore Institute of Technology Vellore
7.8 lakhs
BhartiyaVidyapeeth Deemed University College of Engineering Pune
5.1 lakhs
Heritage Institute of Technology Kolkata
3.83 lakhs
Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal
16.96 lakhs
Nirma University Ahmedabad
7.54 lakhs
Hindustan Institute of Technology and Science Chennai
10.62 lakhs
JamiaHamdard New Delhi
7.31 lakhs
Thus, the students who want to pursue BTech in CSE in 2021 can read about the overview of the
course in this article. It has been established time and again that information technology is
taking over the businesses in India with a rapid force, and this alone has opened up hundreds of
thousands of job prospects for CSE graduates in India. Students can substantiate being a part of
this IT revolution by opting for a BTech degree in computer science, and train themselves to be
the future of a highly competent and technologically skillful workforce, all this while
attaining 100% financial stability.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
