B Tech Biotechnology: Course, Eligibility, Admission Process [Updated]
Source: https://liet.in/blog/b-tech-biotechnology-course-details.html

B Tech Biotechnology: Course, Eligibility, Admission Process [Updated]
Home
Tech Biotechnology: Course, Eligibility, Admission Process [Updated]
13, April
2022
Introduction
Bachelor of technology in biotechnology, or
B Tech Course
is a 4-year undergraduate
program. It consists of the usage of applied biology and chemical engineering
principles, which attempts to find out which living things can be used in medicine,
engineering, technology, and other places. For the students who want to build their
careers around research, B Tech biotechnology has become a popular choice. Moreover,
starting from the manufacturing industries to the textile industry, there are numerous
jobs available, as biotechnology is necessary almost in every aspect of life, and the
COVID-19 pandemic has shaped the current biotechnological conditions in such a way, that
it benefits not only the ones who work for the field but also the ones who enjoy the
service. Through this article, all the necessary information regarding B Tech
Biotechnology, starting from the admission, the fee, the eligibility, and everything,
that a student requires to know before taking
admission with B Tech
Biotechnology.
Scope of Getting Admission in B.Tech Biotechnology
Biotechnology has become a popular choice among students who want to build a career
around science, research, and technology. Fields like textile, medicine, food, animal
husbandry, etc., are always in high demand by biotechnologists. The scope of
biotechnology has expanded to a variety of sciences such as immunology and virology, and
other subjects such as health, agriculture, cell biology, plant physiology, seed
technology, etc. at present, we can see innovation, discoveries, and new products, which
changes our life for the better. A major part of that credit goes to the
biotechnologists. And thus there is a high demand for biotechnologists in the
industrial, medical, food, and health sectors.
Also Read –
How to
become a Software Engineer
Current Trends In Biotechnology
Currently, with the advancement of science and technology, next-generation computers are
being used to predict and understand the scope, and thus are being used to increase the
efficiency in the manufacturing process. For example, drugmakers can use the technology
to analyze data, which can test the efficiency of drugs. There has been an increase in
the number of stakeholder collaborations, in all small companies, government
organizations, multinational companies and academic institutions. There has been a
noticeable increase in the number of personalized treatments of rare diseases, which
wasn’t there before.
Admission Process
The admission process for B Tech biotechnology differs from college to college, but the
majority of the universities/institutions offer admissions based on merit scored in top
entrance exams. Mentioned below are the few things you need to know about the admission
process to B.Tech Biotechnology:
a. Students are granted admission based on merit scored in popular Engineering Entrance
exams such as JEE MAINS or JEE ADVANCED, and other state and university level,
personalized exams such as CET, OJEE, MHT, WBJEE, MET, and many more.
b. There is a specific cut-off every year, which depends on the highest scores. Students
with higher scores have greater chances of getting admission to top colleges and
universities.
c. Students are required to provide a choice of colleges, while appearing for online
counselling, according to their preference.
d. The counselling body selects the seats for each university, according to the ranks
scored by the students.
e. In merit-based admissions, 12th boards scores are taken into consideration, where
physics, chemistry, biology, and English are compulsory subjects. The student needs to
fill out the application form correctly for this kind of admission. During admission,
students must submit the required documents.
f. In the case of entrance-based admission, some universities and states conduct their
entrance tests. The students can apply for this type of admission on the college
websites, submit the necessary documents that are asked for, and keep the receipt
provided. After that, they need to appear for the examination, and those who qualify
will be called for counselling sessions.
JEE MAIN is a national-level examination for engineering and architecture courses
and is considered valid in many top institutions.
JEE ADVANCED is conducted after JEE MAINS for admission into different IITs
In the case of state-level examinations, each state holds its personalized
entrance tests, like WBJEE, UPSEE, etc.
g. One can also get direct admission to colleges without clearing any entrance
examinations through the management quota. Some of those top colleges are BMS College of
engineering, Rajalakshmi Engineering College, and Kumaraguru College of engineering.
Eligibility criteria
BTech Biotechnology is a highly futuristic course that lays the foundation for a
prestigious tech career. Before you get admitted to a college offering this course,
students are required to check certain eligibility criteria that make them qualified to
pursue Btech biotechnology. The eligibility criteria are as follows:
The student must clear their 10+2 board examinations with the science stream,
with physics, chemistry, biology, and English as compulsory subjects.
The student must get a minimum of 75% marks in the 10+2 board examination
The student should be at least 17.
Submission of required documents while filling out the forms is compulsory.
Curriculum
Students are required to study the subjects, to gain core knowledge about the field of
engineering. The exams are taken semester-wise. The students must go for 2 months of
training after the second year and 6 months of a major project in the last semester. The
final and the total assessment is based on theory examinations, internal, practical, and
project work. The subjects primarily revolve around understanding the basics and
advanced courses in Chemistry, Engineering, and a little mathematics. Internships in the
final semester are given adequate weightage, and students must take them seriously to
get a good credit score in their practical examination.
Subjects
Students pursuing B Tech Biotechnology are required to study some compulsory subjects
that are distributed semester wise for each year. Given below are some of the subjects
taught under this program:
Inorganic Chemistry
Life Sciences
Foundation Courses In Physics
Essential In Maths
Concepts In Biotechnology
Introduction To Computer
Foundation Course In Organic Chemistry
Electric Sciences
Microbiology
Bioenergetics
Cell Biology
Chemical Engineering
Molecular Biology
Enzyme Technology
Plant Tissue Culture
Animal Biotechnology
Developmental Biology
Read also –
Which
b tech branch is best?
Career Paths After B Tech Biotechnology
As mentioned before, B Tech in Biotechnology offers a variety of career opportunities for
aspirants. The job prospects are very lucrative and gaining a good experience can
promise a quick upward growth for students in their careers. Some of the job profiles
and their average starting salary per year are listed below:
Sr No.
Job Profiles
Salary
Research Scientist
Rs 865469
Lecturer Of Biology
1 Lakhs To 12 Lakhs
Jobs In Pharmaceutical Companies
Around Rs 10000-60000(Per Month)
Jobs In The Information Technology Sector
Rs 1035927 Per Year
Biotechnologist
Rs 491812
Drug And Pharmaceutical Research Scientist
Rs 6.7 Lakhs Per Year
Food Processing Industrialist
Rs 90000- Rs 5.7 Lakhs Per Year
Waste Management/Environmental Control
Rs 7.4 Lakhs Per Year
Genetic Engineering
Rs 2- 2.8 Lakhs Per Year
Industrial Research And Development
Rs 1.2 Lakhs To 18.7 Lakhs
Conclusion
This article can work as a reference for aspiring students, who want to pursue B Tech in
Biotechnology after 12th, and who want to know the specifications of what the course
entails and what it has to offer. Admission to any of the good colleges offering B. Tech
biotechnology courses, proper dedication, and hard work can ensure the students a
favorable career in the domain of medical and tech industry.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
