B. Tech Syllabus and Subjects – Semester Wise in Different Specializations
Source: https://liet.in/blog/btech-syllabus-subjects.html

B. Tech Syllabus and Subjects – Semester Wise in Different Specializations
Home
B.Tech
Lateral Courses and Admission Eligibility – All about it
08,February
2022
Introduction
Engineering is regarded as one of the most prestigious professions in India. Whether you're a
budding tech geek or a fearless explorer who enjoys getting to the bottom of things, pursuing
this career can help you channel your passions. Pursuing engineering in India demands a strong
performance in +2 with non-medical stream topics such as physics, chemistry, and math, as well
as qualifying for the national level
engineering entrance
exam
- JEE. However, before jumping into a course just because it sounds lucrative as a
career, it is imperative that you know the subjects that you're going to study and find out your
pick based on the subjects you're interested in and would like to pursue further.
Let's look at some known specializations in Engineering as well as the subjects covered under
them. All these courses are divided into 8 semesters and involve 4-5 core subjects per branch.
Alongside, students are required to pick an elective of their choice in each semester, which
differs from college to college. These subjects are given as follow:
B. Tech Civil Engineering
This branch of Engineering deals with the construction, maintenance, understanding, planning, and
designing of civil structures primary to robust countrywide infrastructure. Let's look at the
subjects divided under the curriculum of
Civil Engineering
as per the
different semesters.
Semester 1 & Semester 2
Engineering Physics
Engineering Chemistry
Applied Mathematics
Construction Materials
Fundamentals Of Mechanical Engineering And Mechatronics
Engineering Drawing-I
Computer-Aided Drawing
General Workshop Practice
Semester 3
Semester 4
Probability, Statistics
Numerical Techniques
Linear Programming Mechanics Of Solids-L
Mechanics Of Solids-II
Mechanics Of Fluids - I
Mechanics Of Fluids - Il
Surveying - I
Surveying - II
Concrete Technology
Environmental Engineering
Building Planning And Drawing
Semester 5
Semester 6
Environmental Engineering - II
Structural Analysis - Il
Structural Analysis -1.
Transportation Engineering - I
Concrete Structures -I
Concrete Structures-Ll
Steel Structures - I
Steel Structures - Il
Hydraulic Machinery
Computer-Aided Design - 1
Advanced Strength Of Materials
Estimation, Costing
Semester 7
Semester 8
Matrix Methods Of Structural Analysis
Management Concepts And Practices
Transportation Engineering - II
Prestressed Concrete Structures
Irrigation And Hydraulic Structures
Chosen Electives
Industrial Economics
Computer-Aided Design - II
B.Tech Computer Science Engineering
Computer science
engineering
is a branch of engineering that has to do with the knowledge of software,
programming languages, Algorithms, and much more. With technologies like IoT stepping up
constantly and businesses relying heavily on digital platforms, this specialization has become
the current hot career path that many young and keen tech-geeks are opting for. Let's look at
the complete list of subjects covered under CSE per Semester.
Semester 1 & 2
Engineering Physics/ Engineering Chemistry
Engineering Mathematics
Basics of Electrical Engineering
Programming For Problem Solving/Fundamentals Of Mechanical Engineering And Mechatronics
AI For Engineering/ Emerging Technology For Engineering
Data Structure
Operating Systems
Computer Organization And Architecture
Theory Of Automata And Formal Languages
Discrete Structures And Theory Of Logic
Microprocessor
Mini Project Or Internship Assessment
Database Management Systems
Software Engineering
Compiler Design
Web Technology
Design And Analysis Of Algorithm
Computer Network
Department Elective To Choose From
Distributed System
Artificial Intelligence
Seminar
Industrial Training
Project Work
B. tech Mechanical Engineering
The main role of Mechanical Engineers includes applying the principles of Physics and Mathematics
to analyze, ideate, and design the best, most suited, ergonomic, and operation-specific
mechanical systems. This is an evergreen branch of engineering for various reasons. Here are
some of the subjects and Semester wise syllabus for mechanical engineering courses.
Read
also -
Career Options
after Mechanical Engineering
Semester 1
Semester 2
Engineering Mathematics 2
Basic Electronics
Engineering Graphics
Programming In Python
Introduction To C Programming/ Python
Material Science
Professional Communication Skills
Introduction To Mechanical Engineering
Special Functions And Statistics Applied Electrical Engineering
Fourier Series And Partial Differential Equations
Applied Electronics Engineering
Engineering Metallurgy Production Technology - II
Production Technology - I
Thermal Engineering
Strength Of Materials.
Mechanics Of Machines - I
Engineering Thermodynamics
Fluid Mechanics
Numerical Methods.
Turbomachines
Mechatronics
Automobile Engineering
Compressible Flow And Jet Propulsion
Design Of Mechanical Drives
Heat And Mass Transfer
Computer-Aided Design And Drafting
Mechanics Of Machines - II
Refrigeration And Air Conditioning
Analysis And Design Of Machine Components
Management Principles And Concepts
Power Plant Engineering Metrology And Quality Control
Resource Management Techniques
Oil Hydraulics And Pneumatics
Elective
Electives To Choose From
B. tech Electrical Engineering
Electrical engineering, despite the general belief, is one of the most promising branches of
engineering, merely because its operation stems from the most necessary component of human
lives— electricity. There's no denying that the need and requirement of
electrical engineering
professionals are quite constant. Let's take a look at some subjects that students cover in the
EE curriculum.
Mathematics
Elements Of Civil Engineering And Mechanics
Chemistry
Element Of Electrical Engineering
Elements Of Mechanical Engineering
Physics Theory And Practical
Environmental Studies
Professional Ethics And Human Values
Computer Programming
Mathematics /Science-Based Open Elective
Analog & Digital Electronics
Thermal & Hydraulic Machines
Electro-Mechanical Energy Conversion
Electro-Mechanical Energy Conversion-I
Network Analysis And Synthesis
Electrical Measurement & Measuring Instruments
Instrumentation & Process Control
Basic System Analysis
Electric Machines
Control Systems
Communication Engineering
Digital Signal Processing
Measurement And Electronic Instruments
Power Electronics
Electromagnetic Engineering
Power Systems
Department Electives
Industrial Training Defense
B. tech Electronics & Communication Engineering
This line of engineering comes with the study of digital communication, analogues, control
Systems, coding, information theory and a lot more. With the ever booming telecom industry,
there is plenty of scope for ECE students to work with. Have a look at some of the core subjects
that fall under the spectrum of the ECE branch of engineering.
English And Technical Communication
Engineering Physics 2
Electrical Science
Programming For Problem Solving
Data Structures And Algorithms
Probability Theory And Random Processes
Economics And Management
Signals And Systems
Algorithms For Data Structures
Electromagnetic Fields And Waves
Electronic Devices And Circuits
Electronic Devices And Circuits 2
Digital System Design
Linear Integrated Circuits
Electrical Circuits And Systems
Microprocessors And Interfacing
Electronic System Design And Manufacturing
Transmission Lines And Antennas
High-Performance Computing Architecture As
Control Systems Engineering
Digital Communication
Embedded Systems
Industrial Automation And Instrumentation
VLSI Design And Technology
Analogue Communication
Communication Networks
Microwave Engineering
Information Theory And Coding
Introduction To Soft Computing
Advanced Communication
Mobile Communication
Elective To Choose From
Departmental Elective
Summary
In this article, we have covered the syllabus and subjects that fall under all the branches of B
Tech undergraduate programmes, including specializations in computer science engineering,
mechanical engineering, civil engineering, electrical engineering, as well as electronics and
communication engineering. If you're looking to know the in-depth course structure of any of the
branches of engineering along with the
B. Tech semester wise subjects
that fall under them, your search ends here!
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
