Career Options After B. Tech Electronics and Communication Engineering
Source: https://liet.in/blog/career-after-electronics-communication-engineering.html

Career Options After B. Tech Electronics and Communication Engineering
Home
Career
Options After B. Tech Electronics and Communication Engineering
25,June
2021
Introduction
Humankind as a whole thrives on communication. Right from the everyday conversations between
people of similar interests to those that create a mass influence, like radio, television and
computers- communication forms an integral part in developing modern society. Therefore,
electronics and communication engineers
will always stand as a backbone
to the communication systems as the necessity for better and efficient modes of communication
hikes. The field, hence, requires bright and intelligent minds with a passion for innovation and
invention to birth and develop state-of-the-art technologies that are a step ahead of the modern
world.
Why study Electronics and Communication Engineering?
1. Compelling Necessity
We live in an era of technological advancement. Electronics have simplified a wide range of
sectors including educational, industrial, medical, defence and research. Today, with circuits
and systems present everywhere from the mobile phones in our hands to the satellites we send up
in space, the demand for electronics engineers is an urgent and constant one. Without them, we
would not only fail in innovating new and better automation but will also not be able to improve
the existing one.
2. Futuristic Field
The past century has seen a high-curve growth in the field of computers and engineering. With our
journey from 1G to 4G, we have seen exponential growth in analogue, digital, radio and telecom
electronics. Machines have blended with the human world and made every single task simpler and
time-saving. The future, as well, holds tremendous potential in the IT sector if we continue to
follow this curve, as we aspire to. The developments in fields ranging from nanotechnology and
robotics to high speed automated processors in embedded systems and image processors demand
knowledgeable and skilled electronics engineers to monitor and lead them.
3. Diversified Specializations
Electronics and Communication engineering
finds applications in numerous
sectors to flourish not only an individual’s professional dynamic but also help in taking bigger
leaps for mankind. Whether you work as a scientist, design and development engineer, desktop
support engineer, system control engineer, technology analyst, industrial manufacturer,
technical sales and marketing person or even a technical writer- with electronics and
communication engineering you can be sure of making your place in the betterment of the society.
Choices of Paths after Completing Electronics and Communication Engineering
1. Higher education
After the completion of their Bachelors in Technology in Electronics and Communication
Engineering, students can opt for a Masters program in a specialized field of their choice. You
can go for a Masters in Science in fields like Telecommunication Engineering, Microelectronics &
VLSI Design, Electronics Design and Technology, Wireless Communication, Signal Processing,
Robotics, Embedded Systems or VLSI System Design. If you aspire for managerial roles, you can go
for a Masters in Business Administration.
2. Research and development
Electronics engineers can follow the M. Tech- Ph. D- Research path innovation and development is
what interests them. Organizations like ISRO, DRDO, SAIL and BHEL lead in the research field and
are ideal workplaces to engineer new and better technologies for the enhancement of the
communication and signal systems.
3. Core Jobs
Students can opt for on and off-campus placements with reputed companies like Semiconductors,
Alstom Corporate, Bharat Heavy Electricals, Havells, Crompton Greaves, Neolex Cables, HBM Power
Systems, Exide Industries, Siemens, BSNL, Sony Ericsson, Reliance, Nokia and many more. The
positions they can apply for include Design Engineer, ASIC Engineer trainee, Jr. Embedded
Engineer or Network Support Engineer. The fields they will work in are circuit design, wireless
communications, robotics, electronics, VLSI, Nanotechnology, Embedded Systems, Digital
Electronics, Optical Communications, and Signal among others.
4. Non-Core Jobs
With sufficient knowledge of computers and coding, electronics and communication engineers can
find jobs as assistant software engineers, junior software engineers, programmers, net
engineers, quality analysts and similar positions. The top companies that recruit include Wipro,
Tata Consultancy Services, Accenture, Infosys, HCL and Genpact. These companies provide a good
pay scale and work environment.
5. Government jobs
Public service companies recruit electronics and communication engineers based on written
examinations, their GPAs and skills. The common job profile is that of a technician and the
organizations that hire include
BSNL,
MTNL, ISRO, DRO, and ONGC among others. Electronics engineers can
also find jobs in financial services such as banks as technicians or junior engineers.
6. Start-Up
An electronics engineer with a buzz for business and management can go for a start-up in the ECE
field, which holds less competition as compared to other fields due to a lack in the number of
start-ups. With persistence and planning, an electronics engineer can build a successful
start-up in any sub-field of electronics and communication engineering including VLSI, Robotics,
Nanotechnology, Optical Communication, Embedded Systems, Digital Electronics and many more.
Job Profiles and Job Descriptions of Electronics and Communication Engineers
S. No.
Job Profiles
Job Description
Design Engineer
To work on the research and design of the new products for a particular company- draft
and test prototypes, and ensure that the manufacturing process happens smoothly.
ASIC Engineer
To find and understand system complexities and devise solutions for the same thereby
enhancing the system performance.
Embedded Engineer
To design and implement the software that is used by embedded devices and systems. To
actively participate in every step of the software development life cycle and ensure
that it happens smoothly and gets completed successfully.
Network Support Engineer
To ensure daily that the communication systems that organizations and individuals work
on run smoothly and without any bugs, on both external and internal level.
Software Engineer
To identify the need for new software programs that may ease the work of a particular
sector (business, gaming, etc.) and then design and develop them, while also working to
improve the existing ones in terms of various factors like UI, speed and enabling of new
features. Regularly check if the hardware and software of the system work properly.
Quality Analyst
To actively participate in and ensure that the development and planning of various test
and process plans as well as test scripts for a project are happening smoothly.
Technician
To take part in the first few phases of the software development life cycle including
prototyping, identifying potential threats and eliminating them.
Chief Technical Officer
To overlook the technical sector of an organization on a managerial level and work
towards lining them to the overall growth targets of the company.
ECE Engineering Consultant
To act as a bridge between the client and the working team to make sure that not only
are the client’s needs being met but the technical solutions provided are by the
industry regulations.
10.
Data Analyst
To analyze raw data from different sectors of the company and derive meaningful results
(as graphs, charts, etc.) from it to help in the decision-making for the company or
client and ensure maximum profitable solutions.
Job Profiles And Average Annual Salary Of Electronics and Communication Engineers In 2021
S.No.
Average annual Salary (in Rs.)
4 - 5 lakh
20 lakh
16 lakh
3-4 lakh
4-12 lakh
4.5 lakh
2-2.5 lakh
Chief Technical Officers
18 lakh
5-8 lakh
Conclusion
With the data compiled above, we can sufficiently deduce that a career as an Electronics and
Communication engineer is not only professionally rewarding but aids in the complete development
of society as well. ECE engineers, with their in-depth knowledge and core skills, have a wide
array of career options to pursue, with new job opportunities opening up every minute. As
brilliantly smart individuals and quick learners, electronics and communication engineers hold
the power to enhance, alter and even completely redesign the technological face of today’s
world, and that of tomorrow.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
