Career Options After B.Tech Mechanical Engineering
Source: https://liet.in/blog/career-after-mechanical-engineering.html

Career Options After B.Tech Mechanical Engineering
Home
Career
Options After B.Tech Mechanical Engineering
29,June
2021
Introduction
Mechanical engineering as a profession deals with the research, designing, and manufacture of
machines that either produce power or consume power to solve problems or serve a purpose. From
the making of computer hard disk drives in the IT industry to the creation of prosthetic limbs
and surgical tools in the medical industry, the application and use of
mechanical
engineering
are seen everywhere. Thus, it might be safe to say that mechanical
engineering encompasses a wide range of technologies that add up to its omnipresent nature.
Mechanical Engineers play a significant role in the process of a business cycle. Whether it
involves meeting customer's needs or contributing to the greater good by benefiting society
through their technical expertise in research and development, a mechanical engineering degree
holds immense value.
Top 10 Options after Pursuing B.Tech In Mechanical Engineering
1. Post Graduation, M.Tech In ME
A postgraduate degree in mechanical engineering, or any other engineering domain for that matter,
enables a student to gain more subject matter knowledge, especially about the specificities it
entails. This can lead to better job prospects in future, and also opens up the chance to work
in the research sector by taking up further PhD and work as engineering scientists.
2. Internships
Usually, students pursue internships in their last semester, but they can also take up one after
the completion of their b. tech degree in mechanical engineering, to gain more thorough industry
experience before kick-starting their career. A lot of times, students manage to get employed at
the same firm they intern at and continue working at leading positions.
3. Government Jobs
Government organizations like DRDO, the ministry of defence, institutes like IIT, IIsc, national
research laboratories, and various state departments have openings for mechanical engineers at
several posts. Engineering graduates can apply for them after ensuring they match their required
criteria. It's not easy to reach there as a beginner, but it’s certainly not impossible if you
can prove yourself capable.
4. Private Technical Jobs
This is usually the most sought
option
for maximum engineering graduates
. They take up vocations in various large trade names,
thorough campus placements or independent application. Most engineering graduates are placed at
high annual packages and are given leading roles due to high demand. In the current times,
engineering is supposedly the only profession that is immensely promising and profitable at the
same time.
5. Teaching Jobs
Being experts at mathematics and physics, engineering graduates can pick up tutoring as a
side/main vocation and teach high school students. They can also teach more specific engineering
subjects at the university level up to a certain semester until they gain more finesse. Students
who wish to advance this line of career can take up professional courses like B.ed or enroll in
PhD to become a teaching assistant at colleges.
6. Non-core Jobs
There is no hard and fast rule that an engineering graduate only has to work in an
engineering-related company/ position. There are certain marketable skills that engineering
graduates gain throughout their education, like data analysis and interpretation, aptitude
skills etc. Sometimes these skills are highly desirable at top companies and students are hired
for positions Analyst, Technical Advisor, and many more.
7. Freelancing / Consultancy Services
Mechanical engineers can offer their Consultancy Services to a wide variety of industries and
provide significant technical advances based on their knowledge. This includes Industries like
rubber manufacturing, plastics, computer and electronic products, utilities, petroleum and coal
production and many more.
8. Career Shifts
Engineering graduates can pursue any other degree they wish to for changing their line of career.
Whether you want to go into business, , or even law, engineers make the best
professionals because of their extensive knowledge of core subjects that form the foundation of
many significant professions. Pursuing any other undergraduate degree after b.tech is a great
place to start.
9. Entrepreneurship
We’re living in the era of massive technological advancement, which has birthed some of the most
distinguished and reputed companies. This has also been a driving factor for the start-up
culture, which has been rising at a fast pace in India. Many engineering graduates commence and
run their enterprise after gaining some experience and thus advance the services they excel in.
10. Management Sector
A well-known fact about engineers is that they can be exceptional managers because of their deep
understanding of working mechanisms, practical knowledge, industry-focused education, and
ability to work under pressure, as well as getting things done. In fact, engineers are often
hired to work at managerial positions in various high-tech companies. Thus, the option of
setting their foot in the management sector is viable for engineering graduates.
Top Industries That Employ Mechanical Engineers
1. Automobile Industry
Mechanical engineers gain first-hand knowledge while working on the next generation of
automobiles and providing inputs on the components, modules and systems that add up to the
design and creation of vehicles.
2. Medical Industry
Mechanical engineers are in great demand when it comes to working in the medical sector
because of their significant contribution in developing aids for the disabled, equipment
required to facilitate diagnosis, designing surgical tools according to their usage, and
other necessities like prosthetics.
3. Energy And Power Generation
Sustainable development has been gaining traction in recent times. The role of mechanical
engineers in enabling this cause includes the designing and analysis of more sustainable
forms of energy, the means to fetch them in a set time frame and make them more accessible
for the general public.
4. Agricultural Mechanization
From the development of powered Tractors to high capacity irrigation pumps, there is no
denying that mechanical engineering has been a blessing in the steps taken towards the
automation of the agricultural sector. This has eased out a lot of processes that otherwise
would have taken massive human input.
5. Computer-Aided Technology
IT and computing have transformed the face of mechanical engineering over the years. Now,
many corporations and industries rely on computer-aided design processes to facilitate the
practices of mechanical engineering. Therefore, this integration has led to more job
prospects for mechanical engineers.
6. Aerospace Industry
The significant contribution of mechanical engineers in facilitating commercial aviation has
led to a massive upsurge in the economical development of the country. This industry heavily
relies on engineers and technical experts for its operations, in turn increasing the
employment opportunities available for mechanical engineers.
Job Profiles After Pursuing B.Tech In Mechanical Engineering
Systems Engineer
Applications Engineer
Plant Engineer
Renewable Energy Consultant
Manufacturing Engineer
Engineering Consultant
Mechanical Device Engineer
Mechatronics Engineer
Process Development Engineer
Design Engineer
Electro-Mechanical Engineer
Power Engineer
Packaging Engineer
Sales Engineer
Technical Content Writer
Conclusion
Keeping in mind the steady growth in employment opportunities for Mechanical Engineers as we
progress towards a more modernized civilization, it would be a safe bet in saying that it is
one of the most promising and futuristic career fields. Mechanical engineers are a vital
force in sustaining and transforming communities and economies considering their direct
impact on innovation and design, structuring, and development of effective mechanical
systems. A balanced academic experience coupled with internships, Cooperative education
programs, research projects, and summer employment opportunities, as well as industry
exposure can go a long way in becoming successful future professionals working in the domain
of mechanical engineering.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
