Top Engineering College In Greater Noida
Source: https://liet.in/blog/top-engineering-college-greater-noida.html

Top Engineering College In Greater Noida
Home
Top
Engineering College In Greater Noida
29, September
2021
Introduction
The technology sector in India at this stage is practically booming. This has happened in the
last decade due to a number of factors including a sudden advent of digital technologies and up
gradation in the industry at a vast level. The benefits of pursuing engineering span across a
vast number of ordeals, including financial stability, job security, job satisfaction, better
net worth as a professional and a more lucrative lifestyle. All this makes it safe to say that
engineering in 2021 is the most rewarding and promising career choice.
Top 10 private engineering colleges in Greater Noida
Following is a list of top private colleges that offer BTech courses to students:
GL Bajaj Institute of Technology and Management
Lloyd Institute of Engineering and Technology
Shiv Nadar University Greater Noida
Sharda University
Bennett University
Galgotia College of Engineering and Technology
IEC college of engineering and technology
Noida Institute of Engineering and Technology
Greater Noida Institute of Technology Engineering
Delhi Technical Campus
Top government engineering colleges in Greater Noida
Presently there’s only one government college in greater Noida, called
Gautam Buddha
University
which is a state university offering
B.Tech
courses
with specialisations ranging from
electronics and communication, IT, CSE, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Civil
Engineering, Artificial Engineering, food processing and technology, and various others.
Fee structure of engineering colleges
Sno.
Name of the college
Average annual fee
Names of exams accepted
5.50 L
UPCET
9.25 L
JEE Main
10.6 L
JEE Main, NATA, UPCET
15.1 L
Galgotia college of engineering and technology
4.7 L
JEE Main, UPCET
IEC College of Engineering and Technology
3.7 L
4.4 L
greater Institute of Technology and Engineering
4.3 L
6.20 L
UPCET, JEE Main
2.8 L
Why Greater Noida is the best location to pursue engineering from
Greater Noida has become one of the most decent places in Delhi NCR to pursue higher education
from. Especially in the last few years, there has been inward mobility of people, mainly
students from all strata inclined on taking up their higher studies in this region. The reasons
are many, but the most striking one is the quiet green environment that the township offers.
Being a relatively modernized zone, greater Noida has already become a hub to various private
colleges that allow students to get easy admissions into otherwise tougher courses, like BTech
and MTech.
Important factors to consider before selecting colleges
Whether you're looking for a college in greater Noida or anywhere in the country, the most
important part is understanding the criteria that must be checked before you pick one for
yourself. In times of heavy and paid advertising, people mostly feed off the polished USPs and
ameliorate the most common of things. In this situation, identifying the real deal becomes a
task. Following is the list of the pointers that you can take cues from and find the most
appropriate college from your shortlisted options.
1. Specialisations
Goes without saying, checking the selected college for course availability is the most prominent
criterion. Say you want to pursue BTech CSE in artificial intelligence but the said college only
offers it in information security, would you still go for it? Following an uncompromised career
path shapes the way a student imagines his or her future. Hence, these criteria should be taken
into adequate consideration.
2. Research potential
Pursuing higher studies is very important for going for further research in the field you want
your career in. If the university you prefer does not have adequate research history, faculty
guidance, mandatory research resources, laboratories, or even the provision of going for a PhD
degree, then it can hinder your long term plans.
3. Clubs and societies
Clubs and societies go a long way in shaping the overall personality of the student and play a
significant role in their character development. These clubs should ideally be aligned course
wise. For example, a business school offering MBA should have clubs like HR, ,
communication etc, and an art school should have clubs based on the art subjects.
4. Infrastructure
The premise as well as the overall surrounding of the college is a great determinant of whether
a candidate should go for the college or not. No student would want to spend four years of their
college life in a dull and grim environment, which is checking the infrastructure beforehand
becomes all the way more important.
5. Basic amenities
Facilities like availability of wifi, hostel, transportation, canteen, stationery, sports
equipment, and many more are a mark of the culture and richness of college in terms of valuing
their students. These amenities also ensure a smooth academic experience, and thus, must be
considered before making the final call.
6. Teaching methodologies
Traditional classroom teaching might be a classic but this must be complemented with newer
teaching patterns for heightened learning. For example, the use of multimedia aids while
teaching, including more practical based knowledge, as well as organising industrial visits
frequently should be the focus.
7. Resources
Resources like Elibaries and offline libraries should be accessible for every student.
Similarly, community resources, access to counsellors, adequate seating arrangements, and
various resources alike should be non-negotiable and made available to every student.
8. Fee structure
Affordability has been one of the most primary concerns that affect the admission rate of an
institute. A candidate might be inclined towards a college but if he or she is unable to pay the
fees then willingness takes a backseat. For this, the provision of scholarship should also be
exercised.
9. Location
This criterion might be crucial to some and trivial to others. Mostly because sometimes students
migrate from far away places to complete their degrees and prefer their college to be a prime
location with a decent and easy-going neighbourhood.
10. Placement
The most widely considered criterion is the placement opportunities that are offered by an
institute. For obvious reasons, placement percentage reveals the figurative data on how
efficient your job experience can potentially be, along with the crucial monetary benefits.
Conclusion
Engineering is already an evergreen profession and done from this modern greater Noida Township,
this can turn into one of your best career choices so far. In this article, we have covered the
names of the top 10 colleges in greater Noida offering B Tech courses to students. Along with
the list, you can check the average annual fees, entrance exams accepted by the college, as well
as the selection criteria of an institute. If you have been worrying about finding the most
suitable college for B.Tech, then this article will clarify all your doubts about
engineering in greater
Noida
The only thing
that an engineering aspirant should keep in mind is whether or not
he/she matches the eligibility of pursuing the course. So buckle up and get started with your
lookout for finding the most suitable among the top 10 colleges in greater Noida for BTech.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
