CUET Exam Details – Exam Pattern, Important Dates, Fees, Test Practice center
Source: https://liet.in/blog/cuet-exam-details.html

CUET Exam Details – Exam Pattern, Important Dates, Fees, Test Practice center
Home
CUET Exam Details – Exam
Pattern, Important Dates, Fees, Test Practice center
05, January
2024
Key takeaways:
About Common University Entrance Test (CUET)
Paper Structure of CUET
Pattern of CUET Paper
Important Dates related to CUET
CUET Fees and Application Process
Concept of Test Practice Centre (TPC)
CUET
stands for the Common University Entrance Test.
This test is managed and conducted by the
National Testing
Agency (NTA)
in the form of a computer-based test (CBT) for various doctorate, post-graduate,
graduate, and diploma courses offered by different colleges and universities (including deemed to be
university) across India in multiple languages. The entire paper is designed in the MCQ format, and there is
no age limit to apply for the CUET UG paper. Since it came into existence, CUET has become a blessing for UG
and PG students who earlier used to run from pillar to post across different institutions to seek admission
in their dream program. With the arrival of CUET, things became simple and easy to manage. Now clearing a
single exam opens up the doorways of 250 universities (expected to rise further) for students, and the
complete burden of seeking admission through a class XII score is reduced by the CUET. Thus, CUET offers
students a second chance to perform and deliver the desired results required for admission into the course
of their choice.
There is common disbelief that a class XII score is no longer valid in front of CUET and has now become
redundant, which is not true. The entire curriculum of CUET UG is based on the syllabus of Class XII. Also,
universities like Delhi University use the class XII result in the tie-breaker situation (students with
equal CUET scores choosing the same college and course). Since the class XII score is considered a personal
accomplishment, the CUET score is entirely merit-based and does not depend on the checking and marking
system of individuals. The entire paper is MCQ based with clear instructions on the minimum number of
questions to be attempted under each section along with negative marking. The scope of any form of bias is
reduced to a great extent. Now student’s aspirations are put forward, and all universities are diverted to
make the selection process based on a single exam rather than chasing after examination results (from the
central or state board) of their choice. Now, each university can set its own cut-off scores for different
programs based on CUET scores.
Understanding the CUET UG Paper Structure
The entire
CUET UG
paper is categorized into four
parts – language (Section IA), language (Section IB), domain specific, and general awareness. The complete
syllabus can be viewed or downloaded by
clicking here
. The entire structure of the CUET UG paper is broken into the following
table:
Section Name
Offered
Remarks
Language IA
Tamil
Telugu
Kannada
Malayalam
Marathi
Gujarati
Odiya
Bengali
Assamese
Punjabi
English
Hindi
Urdu
Mandatory to choose any 1 language. Act as medium of paper and checks reading comprehension (based on
different factual, literary, vocabulary, and narrative)
Language IB
French
Spanish
German
Nepali
Persian
Italian
Arabic
Sindhi
Kashmiri
Konkani
Bodo
Dogri
Maithili
Manipuri
Santhali
Tibetan
Japanese
Russian
Chinese
Sanskrit
Optional but selecting any one language can boost your overall score
Domain Specific
Accountancy
Biology/Biological Studies/Biotechnology/Biochemistry
Business
Studies
Chemistry
Computer Science
Economics
Engineering
Graphics
Entrepreneurship
Geography/Geology
History
Home Science
Knowledge Tradition and
Practices of India
Legal Studies
Environmental Science
Mathematics
Physical
Education/NCC/Yoga
Physics
Political Science
Psychology
Sociology
Teaching
Aptitude
Agriculture
Mass Media/Mass Communication
Anthropology
Fine Arts/Visual Arts
(Sculpture/Painting)/Commercial Arts
Performing Arts
Select a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 6 subjects of your choice and download the syllabus for
preparation
General Awareness
Current Affairs
Reasoning Abilities
Quantitative Aptitude
Logical
Reasoning
CUET Exam Pattern
Section
Number of Questions
Duration
Section IA
Total Questions: 50
Need to Attempt: 40
45 minutes for each language
Section IB
Section II (Domain Specific)
Total Questions: 45-50
Need to Attempt: 35-40
45 minutes and 60 minutes for Accountancy, Mathematics, Economics, Physics, Chemistry, and Computer
Science
Section III (General Awareness)
Total Questions: 60
Need to Attempt: 50
60 minutes
Note: +5 marks for each correct answer and -1 for each incorrect answer
Important CUET Dates
Event
Date (Tentative)
Release of Application form
1st week of February 2024
Last date to submit the application form
3rd week of March 2024
Application correction date
1st week of April 2024
Announcement of city of CUET exam
2nd week of April 2024
Release of Admit card
1st week of May 2024
CUET (UG) Exam
15 May 2024 to 31 May 2024
Release of Answer Key
4th week of June 2024
Result Date
3rd week of July 2024
Counselling session
Last week of July 2024 onwards
CUET Exam Fees
Number of Subjects
Candidate Category
Fees in INR
Upto 3 subjects
General (UR)
750/=
OBC-NCL (EWS)
700/=
SC/ST/PwBD/Third Gender
650/=
Centres Outside India
3,750/=
Upto 7 subjects
1,500/=
1,400/=
1,300/=
7,500/=
Upto 10 subjects
1,750/=
1,650/=
1,550/=
11,000/=
How to fill the CUET 2024 Application Form?
The steps to fill the CUET application form are listed as follows:
1. Open the http://cuet.samarth.ac.in website in the web browser
2. Click the Sign in link
3. Click the New Registration link
4. Enter the personal details such as name, address, mobile number, email, etc. in the prescribed
format. You will receive the credentials on your email and mobile phone.
5. Fill up application form by using the login credentials provided to you by NTA.
6. Upload the required documents in the prescribed format and size.
7. Pay the fees online.
8. Take the printouts of the filled application form for future reference.
Test Practice Centre (TPC)
The Ministry of Human Resource Development (HRD) has mandated the National Testing Agency (NTA) to set up
a network of test practice centres for students to attempt mock computer-based tests in order to
familiarize students with the look and feel of online exams, especially in rural areas. To ease you into
the test, TPC offers practice sessions that mimic the real experience. This includes logging in, reviewing
instructions, using the interface, and managing your answers.
Any school, college, or government agency can become TPC after signing the agreement with NTA and
fulfilling the minimum infrastructure requirements, such as computers with internet, a lab, power backup,
furniture, etc.
Register for Test Practice Centre (TPC) on the NTA website (www.nta.ac.in) or via the "NTA STUDENT APP"
downloadable from the Play Store. Both offer identical registration features. The mock test facility for
all the candidates is completely free, and there is no limit to the number of attempts. Students can
choose the next date of the mock test.
The TPCs shall be operative on all Saturday afternoon slots from 14:30 to 17:30 Hrs and on Sunday, two slots
are from 11:00 to 14:00 Hrs and 14:30 to 17:30 Hrs. The candidates will receive the date and slot for
practice at TPC through SMS/registered e-mail Id 24-48 hours before the scheduled slot at TPC. The same SMS
will be used for entry at the Centre.
Conclusion
The Common University Entrance Test (CUET) is conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) once a year at
the graduate and post graduate levels. CUET is a computer-based test (CBT) conducted in 13 languages. The
exam is categorized into 4 sections: Section IA (mandatory language), Section IB (optional language), domain
specific, and general awareness. The fees for CUET exams vary based on the number of subjects selected by
the candidate, the category of the candidate, and the geographical location of the exam centre. There is no
age limit for appearing in the CUET exam, and one can register by visiting the official website. After
successful registration, candidates can make an appointment with the nearby TPC and attempt mock tests.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
