highest paying jobs after B-Tech - A complete Guide!
Source: https://liet.in/blog/highest-paying-jobs-after-b-tech.html

highest paying jobs after B-Tech - A complete Guide!
Home
highest
paying jobs after B-Tech - A complete Guide!
06, April
2022
Introduction
Engineering, currently, is the topmost course pursued by students from the non-medical
stream. Thousands of students every year appear in the JEE exam to crack top-ranking
government engineering colleges of all time, the number alone is enough to vouch for
this simple fact. This is mostly the case because this profession includes a huge band
of benefits for students.
Not only are there a multiplicity of career opportunities, but certain other factors like
job satisfaction, job security, the immense scope of work, personal as well intellectual
development and more, come into play here. This line of career aligns creative pursuits
with technology and renders optimal development. There is the scope of scientific
discoveries, innovation in technology, and new-era thinking ideology that holds the
power to bring out a disruptive technological change in society and the industry.
Let’s look at some of the most popular branches of engineering and find out the job
profiles they entail. The most widely known
B tech specialization
are
Computer
Science
Engineering,
Mechanical Engineering, civil engineering, electrical engineering,
and
electronics and communication engineering. There are several other branches with minor
differences but an overall identical curriculum, offered by some universities.
Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical engineering is, without a doubt, one of the most promising and prospective
professional disciplines as we march towards a more industrialised civilization. Because
of their significant impact on innovation and the design, structure, and development of
successful mechanical systems, mechanical engineers are a critical force in maintaining
and altering economies and societies. A well-rounded undergraduate curriculum combined
with internships, Cooperative Education programmes, academic research, and summer job
prospects, as well as industry exposure, can help students become effective future
mechanical engineers.
Work Profiles And Approximate Annual Salary After Btech In Mechanical Engineering
Sno.
Job Profile
Average Annual Salary
Systems Engineer
4.1 Lakhs
Power Engineer
4.2 Lakhs
Plant Engineer
6.5 Lakhs
Renewable Energy Consultant
3.13 Lakhs
Manufacturing Engineer
4.07 Lakhs
Packaging Engineer
5.3 Lakhs
Mechanical Device Engineer
3.2 Lakhs
Mechatronics Engineer
3.6 Lakhs
Process Development Engineer
6.36 Lakhs
Design Engineer
Electronics And Communications Engineering
A job as an
electronic
and communication engineer
is not only gratifying
professionally, but it also contributes to society's overall growth. With their
in-depth knowledge and fundamental abilities, ECE engineers have a plethora of
employment alternatives to choose from, with new work opportunities appearing on a
daily basis. Electronics and communication engineers, as creative thinkers and quick
learners, have the capacity to improve, change, and even entirely remodel the
technical face of today's and tomorrow's worlds.
Work Profiles And Approximate Annual Salary After Btech In Electronics And
Communications Engineering
S. No.
Job Profiles
Average Annual Salary (In Rs.)
4 - 5 Lakh
Asic Engineer
20 Lakh
Embedded Engineer
16 Lakh
Network Support Engineer
3-4 Lakh
Software Engineer
4-12 Lakh
Quality Analyst
4.5 Lakh
Technician
2-2.5 Lakh
Chief Technical Officers
18 Lakh
Ece Engineering Consultant
10.
Data Analyst
5-8 Lakh
Civil Engineering
Civil engineering in 2022 is a fast paced industry that witnesses growth and development
in literal terms. From undertaking the construction, designing, as well as monitoring of
the physical structures to digging into the more complex aspects of it,
B tech civil
engineering
is a diverse field with a perfect blend of technical and creative
input.
Civil engineering is a career path that is not only beneficial professionally but also
financially. As more profitable projects emerge, numerous technologies have forged
alliances with civil engineers, expanding the pool of options accessible to them. As a
result, there are several employment alternatives after completing a
Btech in civil
in 2022, each of which is quite valuable.
Work Profiles and Approximate Annual Salary after B-tech In Civil Engineering
Architectural Engineer
Aerospace Engineer
8 Lakh
Structural Engineer
6 Lakh
Geotechnical Engineer
Project Site Inspectors / Construction Engineers
5.2 Lakh
Transportation Engineer
5 Lakh
Project Managers
12-14 Lakh
15-20 Lakh
Engineering Consultant
15 Lakh
Analyst
Electrical Engineering
The demand for all types of engineers, including electrical engineers, is on the rise as
a result of technological advancements and rapidly expanding infrastructure.
Electrical
is expanding in critical areas such as wireless communications and
mobile
technology, as well as cross-field areas such as nanotechnology and biomedical
engineering; thus, these are the disciplines to keep an eye on and specialize in, since
they have a lot of potential. Multinational firms are looking for power generating
specialists as the world moves toward renewable energy sources such as hydro, solar, and
wind power. This is another path you could choose to make a living.
Work Profiles and Approximate Annual Salary after B-tech In Electrical Engineering
Annual Average Salary (In Rupees)
Telecommunication Engineer
3.8-4 Lakh
4-5 Lakh
8-9 Lakh
Micro Electrical Engineer
Control And Instrumentation Engineer
4.3-5 Lakh
Quality Control Engineer
6.9-7 Lakh
Broadcast Engineer
4.6-5 Lakh
Test Engineer
Electrical Design Engineer
Nuclear Engineer
9-10 Lakh
Computer Science Engineering
CSE is emerging as the most widely pursued branch of engineering due to its growing
popularity. People have realised the potential of algorithms, computing systems, and the
power of cutting-edge technology is facilitating profitable growth. Thus, professionals
who have ample domain knowledge are needed more than ever in this ever booming and
futuristic industry. IT is regarded as one of the highest-paying professions, with a
diverse range of work and job prospects. Non-IT firms, such as universities, research,
private and public enterprises, government agencies, corporate entities, commercial
organisations, and the manufacturing sector, can all employ IT engineers. Job security
is just one of the many benefits that
B tech Computer
Science Engineering
(CSE)
professionals hold. They can work as developers, programmers, network administrators,
etc.
Work Profiles And Approximate Annual Salary After Btech In Computer Science
Engineering
Data Science Analyst
6.35 Lakhs
Machine Learning Engineer
7.3 Lakhs
Computer Animations And Ui/Ux Design
7 Lakhs
Software Developer
5.9 Lakhs
Blockchain Developer And Engineer
6.9 Lakhs
Computer Network Architect
4.88 Lakhs
Database Administrator And Manager
Security Analyst
5.48 Lakhs
Cloud Computing And DevOps
6.27 Lakhs
Game Developer
5.23 Lakhs
Conclusion
Clearly, we have seen that the
job prospects after B-tech
are extremely high-paying and
rewarding in all aspects. Top companies like Google, Flipkart, Amazon, Sapient, Samsung,
and many more hire Software Developers at lucrative packages ranging from INR 12 LPA to
INR 35 LPA, or even more depending upon the scope of work and company. One of the many
advantages of engineering is that it’s rooted in almost all industries and there is
scope and opportunities for everyone. If you’re someone who gets facilitated by
technology, then you must consider a career in engineering by all means!
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
