Scholarships for Btech Engineering Students in India: All about It
Source: https://liet.in/blog/btech-engineering-student-scholarship-India.html

Scholarships for Btech Engineering Students in India: All about It
Home
Scholarships
for Btech Engineering Students in India: All about It
28, Aug
2021
Introduction
Engineering as a career option has its own set of benefits. From easy employability to high
salary ranges, working with the smartest professionals to contributing to the global mobility of
output, engineering encompasses just the prospects that can change the course of a student's
life, for good. However, it's not in everyone's capacity to manage to afford the cost of
education that underlines this prestigious degree.
To tackle this problem of affordability, and empower people with great knowledge and interest in
technical education, various private, public, and non-government organizations have come forward
to offer lucrative assistance options to students, thus helping them ease out the financial
burden that may follow.
Need For Scholarships in India
While there is no limit to how beneficial a scholarship program can be for a student in so many
ways, let us look at some of the primary advantages that availing of a scholarship can offer.
Accessible education for all
Education is that one aspect of a student's life that should never be compromised because of
insufficient household income. Scholarships and sure that the dreams and aspirations of
every
student are met irrespective of their financial or socioeconomic background.
Unlimited exposure
Scholarships indirectly facilitate the students in gaining early exposure through networking
and help them in building authentic connections especially with people who've applied
for/availed the same scholarship. This also means an added credit because contesting for a
scholarship gives the student an edge over others and makes them stand out.
Highlights your profile
Scholarships also help in enhancing the resume of a student because most of the scholarships
are highly competitive. They also demonstrate your willingness and interest to study in a
particular domain and eventually work in it. Along with this, scholarships are a testament
a student's hard work and unwavering determination.
Option to choose a preferred college
Most scholarships, especially private funded ones give you the advantage of choosing from the
topmost colleges, which means the selected student can avail the best educational programs
suited for them.
Top Scholarships in India for Engineering Students
There isn't one but many scholarship options available for students to choose from. Students
should keep track of upcoming scholarship schemes beforehand and apply in time to avail
multidimensional rewards and incentives that come with each. Students can only avail one
scholarship at a time, but this should not stop them from applying in bulk to increase their
chances of fetching at least one of them. Let's look at some of the most common scholarships
that students can apply for:
Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship
This scheme was initiated by the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of HRD(now Ministry of
Education) in 2008 to provide Monetary assistance to graduate and postgraduate students. A
total number of 82,000 students (girls and boys equally). An annual amount of INR 20,000 is
allotted to each selected student, and the period of applying usually falls between August to
October. Not just engineering, this scholarship is available for students pursuing any career
path.
AICTE PG (GATE or GPAT) Scholarship
This scholarship opportunity was formed to enable the development of technical education in the
country and encourage more students to take up the post-graduation course in engineering without
letting any Monetary barrier outweigh that. Students who have qualified for the GATE or the
GPAT exam can benefit from this scholarship, which offers INR 12400 on a monthly basis. Only
students studying in an AICTE approved college or university are eligible for this scholarship
scheme.
Yashad-Sumedha Scholarship Programme
Under this scholarship scheme, candidates who belong to families with earnings below the poverty
line, single parents, children, girls, and orphans are offered Monetary assistance of INR
20,000 per annum. This scholarship is open for students residing in Udaipur, Rajsamand,
Chittoor, Bhilwara, and Ajmer, who manage to secure more than 75% in their +2 exams. They should
be studying engineering and be in the 1st semester of any government college. The applications
for this scholarship scheme usually start rolling in early September.
All India Engineering Entrance Scholarship Examination Primary
This examination is a national-level entrance test that opens up the doors for engineering
aspirants to study in the top 1000 government-approved universities offering BTech courses.
Under this scheme, up to 2000 students securing more than 85% of scores in the examination are
exempted from the tuition fees for the tenure of 4 years. 3000 students who get more than 75%
marks get their tuition fee waived for 1 year and 5000 students with less than 755 marks can
avail themselves of a standard laptop to study engineering. Applications are usually open until
the March end of the given academic year.
FAER McAfee Scholar Awards
Students pursuing bachelor in engineering in recognized universities of India are chosen as per
their eligibility and application and are given a chance to receive up to INR 100000 in
scholarship awards. Interested students pursuing engineering can apply for these awards by post
or by emailing the foundation for the advancement of Research and Education Bangalore. The
student’s willingness to work in the realm of computer science, cybersecurity, artificial
intelligence, renewable energy systems, information technology, and other specific technological
sectors is taken into consideration.
Keep India Smiling Foundational Scholarship
The sole purpose of the Keep India smiling foundation scholarship program is to empower
meritorious candidates by giving them a chance to pursue their dreams. The program makes this
happen by providing financial assistance(up to INR 30k×4years), career guidance, and mentorship
to students interested in pursuing a career in engineering. There are certain eligibility
conditions that a student must follow to avail of this scholarship. These include having a score
of at least 60% in 12th grade in the latest academic year, an annual family income of less than
INR 5 lacs, and enrollment in a recognized undergraduate engineering program in India.
HDFC Bank Parivartan’s ECS Scholarship
Educational crisis scholarship is provided by India's most preferred financial service provider,
HDFC bank. Dedicated to uplifting the underprivileged, this scholarship is specially introduced
for meritorious students facing difficulty in accessing higher education due to lack of
financial resources, or any other reason. Up to INR 75000 is provided to prevent the students
from dropping out. HDFC Bank's social initiative, called Parivartan, has undertaken many such
projects to facilitate undisturbed youth education and livelihood training.
Gaurav Foundation Scholarships
For engineering, Gaurav Foundation scholarships are specifically provided to students who have
completed their BTech degree and wish to pursue their post-graduation in engineering. This
scholarship is offered to students based on their profile, academic credits, and experience in
holding positions of responsibility. To apply for the scholarship engineering graduates from
recognized universities must have secured a minimum of 60% in their 10th and 12th grades.
Students looking to study abroad are allowed a maximum reward of INR 10 lakh per year whereas
students enrolled in Indian colleges are rewarded INR 200000 per year. To apply for this
scholarship students must pay a non-refundable sum of INR 1500 along with their online
application forms.
Apart from these several other top private engineering colleges provide their own scholarship
schemes if the candidate manages to clear the cut-off in the required exam. Many colleges offer
up to 100% of scholarships. These include colleges like Lloyd institute of engineering and
technology, UPES, Lovely Professional University, Chandigarh group of colleges, and many more.
If a student has scored good grades in their +2, then qualifying for these scholarship exams is
a possibility they must not hinder from exploring.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
