Btech Civil engineering Syllabus, Admission Procedure and career Scope
Source: https://liet.in/blog/btech-civil-engineering.html

Btech Civil engineering Syllabus, Admission Procedure and career Scope
Home
B tech
Entrance Exam List, Syllabus and Dates
19, January
2022
Introduction
Civil engineering is often referred to as the "mother of all engineering" because it is
the oldest form of engineering. Civil engineering, to put it another way, is concerned
with the physical aspects of things that are necessary for the smooth operation of
everyday human life. Every construction that assists the normal usage, passage and
subsistence of commoners is covered by
civil
engineering
which includes
bridges,
buildings, flyovers, roads, drainage systems, reservoirs, and airports. A civil
engineer's job description includes everything from the conceptual stage to the final
plan, archetype, development, construction, and maintenance of structures. The Bachelor
of Technology in Civil Engineering is a four-year undergraduate engineering degree that
includes the study related to the aforementioned topics.
Scope of
Civil
Engineering
Civil engineering is regarded as the foundation of efficiency in the general public's
day-to-day activities. As the name implies, the outcome of a civil engineer's labor has
a significant impact on the entire society. Hundreds of thousands of aspects must be
evaluated before approving a design, whether it is an extraordinarily designed urban
city or something as simple as sewage systems. Civil engineers play an important part in
this process. Civil engineering is especially important in emerging countries like
India, where growth and expansion are often discussed. With India's booming economy and
lagging infrastructure, it is evident that the country needs professional and educated
civil engineers to guarantee that infrastructure does not stifle economic growth. This
demand is directly proportionate to the opportunities accessible in this field of
engineering, which will expand its scope in 2022. Being a civil engineer indicates your
interest in resolving challenges linked to infrastructure and numerous complex
structures, and it frequently entails working in the construction industry. Civil
engineering students may have positions such as Project Administrators, Design
Engineers, Application Engineers, Chief Technical Officers, and many others.
B Tech Civil Engineering Syllabus
The subjects for any branch of engineering for the 1st and 2nd semesters are usually the
same with some exceptions for field-specific subjects. Following are the list of updated
subjects divided semester wise for the
curriculum for 2022.
Semester 1 And Semester 2
Engineering Physics
Topics: Theory of Electromagnetic Field, Wave Optics, Fiber Optics, Relativistic
Mechanics, and Quantum Mechanics
Engineering Chemistry
Topics: Fundamentals of Organic/Inorganic Chemistry, Electrochemistry and
Fundamentals of Organic/Inorganic Chemistry, Electrochemistry and Chemical Kinetics,
Analytical Techniques in Chemistry, Applied Chemistry
Applied Mathematics
Topics: Probability and Statistics, Linear Algebra, Differential and Integral
Calculus, Vector Calculus, Complex Analysis
Construction Materials
Topics: Building Stones - Classification of Rocks, General characteristics of stones,
Uses of stones in construction, Bricks and Tiles - Introduction, Manufacturing,
Classification and specifications, Tiles, Cement - Introduction, raw materials,
Properties and Types of Cement, Timber and Wood-Based Products, Paints and
Varnishes, Metals, Miscellaneous Materials
Fundamentals Of Mechanical Engineering And Mechatronics
Topics: Introduction To Solid Mechanics, IC Engines, Measurement And Control System,
Mechatronics, Fluid Mechanics And Applications
Engineering Drawing-I
Computer-Aided Drawing
General Workshop Practice
Semester 3
Probability, Statistics
Linear programming Mechanics of Solids-l
Mechanics of Fluids - I
Surveying - I
Geotechnical Engineering - I
Concrete Technology
Building Planning and Drawing
Semester 4
Numerical Techniques
Mechanics of Solids-II
Mechanics of Fluids - Il
Surveying - II
Geotechnical Engineering - II
Environmental Engineering II
Semester 5
Environmental Engineering - II
Structural Analysis -1.
Concrete Structures -I
Steel Structures - I
Hydraulic Machinery
Advanced Strength of Materials
Semester 6
Structural Analysis - Il
Transportation Engineering - I
Concrete Structures-ll
Steel Structures - Il
Water Resources Engineering Elective - 1
Computer-Aided Design - 1
Estimation, Costing and Valuation
Semester 7
Matrix Methods of Structural Analysis
Transportation Engineering - II
Irrigation and Hydraulic Structures
Industrial Economics
Computer-Aided Design - II
Semester 8
Management Concepts and Practices
Prestressed Concrete Structures
Chosen Electives
Electives to choose from -
Groundwater Hydrology
Experimental Stress Analysis
Earthquake Resistant Structures
Remote Sensing and GIS
Advanced Foundation Engineering
Hydrology
Water Power Engineering
Structural Dynamics
Finite Element Method
Models for Air and Water Quality
Transportation planning
Pavement Analysis and Design.
Advanced Surveying Techniques
Steel-Concrete Composite Structures
Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering
Industrial Safety
Computational Fluid Dynamics
Urban and Regional Planning
Operations Research Techniques in Civil Engineering
Creative writing through literature
Job profiles and roles after pursuing Civil Engineering
1. Architectural Engineer
An architectural engineer test evaluates and improves the structural integrity of
structures and building systems using mathematical and scientific concepts in
building design. Architectural engineers may focus on designing, building
prototypes, ensuring the implementation of designs and altering them whenever
required.
2. Structural Engineer
A Structural Engineer is an expert in the design and analysis of diverse structures.
They give precise estimates for the strength and stability of structures like
bridges and buildings. A Structural Engineer is responsible for balancing many
elements of a project, such as safety and design. Furthermore, a Structural Engineer
analyzes modern technologies in the sector to identify the most cost-effective
solution.
3. Geotechnical Engineer
Geotechnical Engineers are important to the success of building projects. They
examine the geology of a certain location, evaluate data, and conduct research to
assist develop suggestions and designs for constructions suggested for that site.
Geotechnical engineers examine an area's soil, rock, and water tables, identifying
issues like stability, future erosion, and settlement, all in the service of
suggesting the best and safest methods build everything from houses to high-rises to
highway interchanges
4. Project Site Inspectors / Construction Engineers
They examine project drawings and plans, manage project timelines and resources, and
compute costs. Planning construction activities at each stage and liaising with
designers to ensure a successful and faultless outcome.
5. Transportation Engineer
Civil engineers who develop motorways, airports, railways, and bus networks. They
work for consulting organizations that troubleshoot for the government, and private
companies that manufacture transportation materials and equipment.
6. Project Managers
Assume complete responsibility for ensuring that all parts of construction are
aligned with safety requirements, supervising sequential progress, and ensuring that
all components of the construction are aligned to eliminate the possibility of any
error.
7. Chief Technical Officers
The primary job responsibilities of a Chief Technical Officer involves overseeing all
technological upgrades at all stages and working to ensure that all procedures are
up to date with the newest technology
8. Engineering Consultant
An engineering consultant mainly deals with assisting companies in solving technical
issues and doubts a team night has and guiding them towards the best course of
option after considering all technical inputs.
8. Analyst
The major job role of an analyst revolves around compiling and analyzing data to
interpret suitable measures towards the company’s interest. The analysis is done
based on technical findings, adherence to quality and quantity of products and
materials, and foolproof overseeing of all undertakings related to the project.
9. Aerospace Engineer
Aerospace engineers are responsible for the development and testing of goods used in
the aerospace and space industries. This position requires advanced materials
knowledge as well as experience drafting designs for aircraft, helicopters,
spaceships, rockets, and other related machinery using specialist computer tools,
monitoring aerodynamic performance, and testing and improving their capacities to
make their use more convenient.
Conclusion
As a result of the pervasiveness of this engineering area in day-to-day human
activities, the number of opportunities accessible for civil engineers in 2022 is
enormous. Essentially, this is the oldest, and hence most generally followed a
specialization that provides engineering graduates with the opportunity to design
huge, functioning, and efficient ecosystems from the ground up. Many top
universities around the country including the
Lloyd
Institute of Engineering and
Technology
, provide substantial, industry-oriented curricula that allow
students to
harness and improve their talents as they learn them.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
