Tips to Crack Engineering Entrance Exam – LIET
Source: https://liet.in/blog/tips-crack-engineering-entrance-exam.html

Tips to Crack Engineering Entrance Exam – LIET
Home
Tips
to Crack Engineering Entrance Exam – LIET
20,July
2021
Introduction
If you're looking to crack JEE mains or any other engineering exam in one attempt, then these 10
tips are exactly what you need to follow to score a higher rank. Pursuing engineering in 2021 is
equivalent to wearing success on your sleeves as we're practically breathing technology every
day. To get you one step closer to your dream of becoming a successful professional in the
domain of technology, given below are some of the most effective tips and tricks curated to
ensure your
admission into B.Tech programs
at top institutions.
1. Stay Ahead of Your Competition
The foremost and very underrated tip to begin with, while you're buckling up to prepare for an
engineering entrance exam, is starting early. For an exam as complicated and technical as JEE,
along with other state and university level exams, there is no 'enough' time parameter that can
determine your chances of making it to top tier institutions like IITs and NITs. This means the
more time you spend practicing and working on your knowledge, the more secure your future looks.
For this, having a strong foundation and knowing the concepts well can make you stay one step
ahead of your counterparts at all levels. Since the syllabus usually contains +1 and +2 level
PCM, having a preparation mindset while you're studying can help fundamentally.
2. Gather All Information Beforehand
Whether it’s the syllabus we’re talking about, course materials, or even the examination pattern
and particulars, you must accommodate your stack with all necessary books and papers. Any
last-minute run or ambiguity may cause you to suffer some serious backlashes, and you wouldn’t
want that to happen. On the same note, all exam-related information should also be cleared in
time. If you think you have any doubts, however minute, you can reach out to your teachers,
professors, or check from the official website if you're preparing for
JEE (Mains).
3. Dig Into The Previous Year Papers
Previous year's papers provide you with an insight into the types of questions asked, most
common areas, and speed-time estimation. Not only that, but this can also give you a reality
check on your preparation so far, and ensure whether you're able to manage all questions in the
set time frame. That being said, the more questions you solve, the better you get at them. The
best bet is to attempt these papers at the time of actual examination, and identify your weak
spots while you're on it and demonstrate the seriousness you'd give to your actual examination.
Once you've got your real status on the exam, you know where to focus more.
4. Consistency Is The Key, Always
Currently, engineering is one of the most prestigious and lucrative career options out there. If
you want to set your foot in this course, then you must do everything in your capacity to make
sure you rank high in the entrance exam. This can be possible if you do a little practice every
day without fail, up until the exam day. Hard work will not take you as far as consistency will,
which is why having a focussed and unshakeable approach remains pivotal. Engineering aspirations
should ideally be studying 5 to 6 hours every day. This time can be divided into smaller slots
as per convenience, and short breaks should be taken in between to keep up the enthusiasm.
5. To-do Lists, Schedules, Time Tables- To The Rescue
Having an action plan ready beforehand will keep you disciplined, conscious, and committed to
your study goals for individual days. Using every resource that pushes you to keep going is
beneficial, whether it is a premade weekly timetable, everyday to-do list, monthly action plan,
or something else. The trick is to keep ticking important topics off your list day by day,
revisiting them, revising them, testing your progress, and moving on to the next one. Students
can even make use of applications like 'Forest' to keep off all kinds of distractions.
6. Doing More In Less
This might be an ancient overused tip but this holds immense significance nonetheless. Sometimes
people spend way too much time being stuck at one question without realizing the opportunity
cost of the moment. When it comes to clearing one of the toughest and most competitive exams of
India, time management becomes the most crucial underlying element of the studying process. To
give you a clearer picture, let’s say you’ve studied everything and know the answers to all the
questions, but can you guarantee that you’ll be able to reach the last question before the
time’s up? Let that answer reflect on you.
7. Test How Far You’ve Come
Just studying every day is not enough, students must track their progress and estimate a
percentage-wise syllabus that is covered weekly to make sure they're following the right
approach. tracking how far you've come means identifying your study pattern, along with the
topics that are consuming more of your time, and then devising a strategy to master those areas.
You can attempt online mock tests, sample papers, previous year question papers, etc to
understand exactly where you land with your current preparation strategy. This should be done at
least twice a month, as this gives the students an edge to be accountable to themselves and work
accordingly.
8. Focus on SAS (Subject Matter, Accuracy, Speed)
The three main ideas to keep in mind while studying are SAS: Subject matter, accuracy, and
speed, in that order. If you concentrate on cultivating in-depth proficiency in physics,
chemistry, and maths, covering both the theoretical aspects and the numerical part, then
accuracy will certainly follow. Once you've spent ample time perfecting these two, then you
finally jump on the speed. To boost your momentum and limit your time spent per question, you
can start by giving yourself deadlines and targets for a particular number of questions.
Additionally, you can solve short online quizzes to pump up your pace.
9. Follow a Holistic Approach
If you stay adamant about clearing only one exam, then you're practically reducing your chances
to get into a decent engineering institute. Since all engineering exams have more or less the
same syllabus, it'll always be a sound option to target as many papers as you can simply because
there's nothing to lose. On the upside, doing this will compel you to solve more and more papers
and dig deeper into the subjects, which in turn will elevate your options in terms of colleges.
Having a diverse knowledge of a couple of entrance exams will also boost your confidence and
force you to give your best in every next exam you study for.
10. Revise. Revise. Revise.
Just when you think you've completely mastered a topic and there is no scope of doubt left,
stop. Introspect, and remind yourself that it doesn't work that way. Engineering entrances
consist of practical subjects that require constant practice and revision. It is not
fundamentally possible to not touch a topic when it's done because most of the concepts are
correlated. Timely thorough revision can assist in enhancing your core understanding of a
subject and allow you to grasp more and more of a topic leading to a better grip on your
attempts.
While there is no stepwise checklist or a secret code to automatically score higher in your
engineering entrances, following these simple but effective tips can help you customise a
preparation process that is most suitable for you, and yields visible results.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
