B. Tech Civil Engineering Admission 2021 – Fees, Eligibility, Process
Source: https://liet.in/blog/b-tech-civil-engineering.html

B. Tech Civil Engineering Admission 2021 – Fees, Eligibility, Process
Home
Tech Civil Engineering Admission 2021 – Fees, Eligibility, Process
16,June
2021
Introduction
What Is Civil Engineering?
Civil engineering is considered to be the oldest form of engineering, and for this very reason it
is also sometimes called the “mother of all engineering.” In simpler terms, civil engineering is
all about the physical aspect of things that are beneficial for the smooth functioning of normal
human life. From bridges, flyovers, buildings, roads, dams, canals, to airports, every structure
that aids the routine use, passage, and sustenance of commoners is covered under civil
engineering. Right from the ideation stage to the final plan, archetype, development,
construction, and maintenance of those structures, all of it falls under the job description of
a civil engineer.
Scope of Pursuing Civil Engineering in Present Times
Civil engineering is deemed to be the root of efficiency in day to day operations of the general
public. As the name suggests, the entire civilization relies heavily on the outcome of work that
a civil engineer does. There are hundreds and thousands of factors that are to be considered
before approving a design, whether we talk about an exceptionally planned urban city, or
something as basic as sewerage structures, civil engineers have a major role to play. Especially
in a developing country like India, where growth and expansion are always in the talks, civil
engineering stands as the need of the hour. This need is directly proportional to the prospects
available in this domain of engineering, thereby increasing its scope in 2021.
So many branches related to human civilization require consistent brainstorming, execution,
supervision, and management. Be it the government sector, industrial sector, commercial sector
or even the social sphere, the possibilities for civil engineers to expand their area of work
are enormous. Considering the domains that civil engineering encompass, there are branches like
transportation engineering, building, planning, and construction, town planning, water resources
engineering, surveying and levelling, structural engineering, geotechnical engineering,
environmental engineering, and more that students can gain expertise in, which further
demonstrates the ambit of this profession in current times.
Skills Required To Be A Civil Engineer
Every branch of engineering requires you to have a particular set of skills that aid you in
enriching your knowledge on the specialization of your choice. To pursue BTech in civil
engineering in 2021 these are the following skills that you must possess in order to come out as
An eminent professional in your realm.
Mathematical Skills
Scientific Skills
Analytical Skills
Problem Solving Abilities
Interest In Infrastructure
Project Management Skills
Imaginative Thinking
Decision-Making Abilities
Leadership Skills
Interpretation And Communication Skills
Critical Thinking Abilities
Interest in The Physical Aspect Of Things
Observational Skills
Many public and private institutions offer Btech in civil engineering to aspiring candidates.
These institutions differ in terms of fees, eligibility criteria, campus infrastructure,
placements, research potential etc. Following is a list of the top 10 colleges that offer a
BTech degree in civil engineering in 2021, along with their fees mentioned aside.
Top 10 Public Colleges for Civil Engineering with Their Fees
S.No.
Name of the college
Fees (Rs.)
Indian Institute of Technology Bombay
9.08 lakhs
College of Engineering Pune
3.39 lakhs
Delhi Technological University
7.81 lakhs
Indian Institute of engineering science NSE and Technology Shibpur
5.81 lakhs
VeermataJijabai Technological Institute Mumbai
3.22 lakhs
SardarVallabhbhai National Institute of Technology Surat
5.38 lakhs
Harcourt Butler Technical University Kanpur
5.3 lakhs
Lal Nehru Technical University Hyderabad college of engineering
82K
Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur
8.47 lakhs
Institute of Technology Tiruchirappalli
8.8 lakhs
Top 10 Private Colleges For Civil Engineering With Their Fees
Lloyd Institute of Engineering and Technology Greater Noida
7.8 lakhs
Manipal Institute of Technology
16.16 lakhs
SRM Institute of Science and Technology Chennai
5.5 lakhs
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering Bangalore
3.89 lakhs
Vellore Institute of Technology Vellore
6.92 lakhs
RV College of Engineering Bangalore
2.35 lakhs
British Institute of Technology Kolkata
3.83 lakhs
BhartiyaVidyapeeth Deemed University College of Engineering Pune
5.10 lakhs
Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology Bhubaneswar
14.91 lakhs
Amity School of Engineering Noida
5.32 lakhs
Eligibility criteria required to pursue BTech in civil engineering in 2021
Basic eligibility criteria remain the same, however, the specifications may vary from one college
to another. It is advised that students must ensure that they match up to the requirements of
each institution before applying
1. Students must have completed their 12th from a recognised board of Institution, like CBSE,
ISCE, or state board
2. Students must have studied physics, chemistry and mathematics in class 12th, under-medical
stream. Some Institutions require English as a mandatory subject as well
3. The students must have secured a minimum aggregate of 45% for reserved categories and 40% for
unreserved categories. However, this may vary from government to private institutions, as
certain colleges demand a minimum aggregate of 75% in class 12 with 60% individually in the
three main subjects.
Admission Process To Pursue Btech In Civil Engineering
The admission process of pursuing ba tech in civil engineering in 2021 is almost similar in all
institutions. There are basic mandatory steps that must be followed without which the admission
wouldn't be granted. Let's look at this common process at a glance below.
1. Application forms for various national level exams, like JEE mains and JEE, advanced,
state-level exams like MH CET, KCET etc, as well as university-level exams like BITSAT, SRMJEEE
etc are rolled out at the beginning of the academic years. The dates vary from one exam to
another and must be checked monthly to make sure you’re not missing out on any exam-related
update.
2. Once the application forms are out, students must fill it thoroughly without missing out on
any detail that may or may not lead to rejection of your application form. There’s a nominal fee
that must be paid for each application that varies for reserved and unreserved categories. After
your application is submitted, students must wait for their admit cards, where exam-related
specifications like venue, timings etc are mentioned.
3. Aspirants are then supposed to appear for their exam and attempt it. There are different rules
and different eligibility criteria for each exam that must be checked before applying. These may
include the marks obtained in 12th, the stream opted etc.
4. Different cut off lists for different colleges are released, students who make it through the
merit are qualified for applying to specific colleges. Selected candidates are then called for
counselling where they’re allotted different branches based on their preference but the final
decision is made in accordance with their ranks. The number and availability of seats have a
major role to play here.
Conclusion
Thus, the number of prospects available for civil engineers in 2021 is huge because of the
omnipresent nature of this domain of engineering in day to day human activities. Primarily, this
is the oldest, and hence, most widely pursued specialisation that offers engineering graduates a
chance to build large, functional, and efficient ecosystems right from their foundation. There
are many prestigious institutions across the country with their extensive, industry-oriented
curriculum that allow students to channel and hone their skills as they learn them. One such
institution offering these prospects is the Lloyds Institute of Engineering And Technology.
Introducing a new and one of its kind programs for the first time in India, Lloyd has unveiled
its Cooperative Education Program that provides its engineering undergraduate students to work
and earn while studying, and gain practical skills that complement their theoretical knowledge
so thE students can gain an edge over others, and Lloyd makes its happen with its
industry-focused approach.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
