Top Engineering Entrance Exam List 2021 - LIET
Source: https://liet.in/blog/engineering-entrance-exam-list.html

Top Engineering Entrance Exam List 2021 - LIET
Home
Top
Engineering Entrance Exam List 2021 - LIET
15,June
2021
Introduction
One thing about engineering that makes it the best profession of all time is that along with
being an already established field, its scope keeps rising every single day. 2 years from now or
20, the need for engineers in India will never fall short. Engineering being an evergreen
profession fulfils the goals of students on a personal level as well as the larger picture, on a
global level. As of 2021, a staggering number of 22 lakh students have appeared for the JEE
mains exams, making it the most common as well as competitive exam of all time. For this same
reason, it is always important to have a backup plan in place, which is where the other 50
engineering entrance exams in India come into play.
Engineering exams for 2021
To help engineering aspirants know more about the engineering exams they can appear for, the
following is a list of top engineering entrance exams in 2021.
1) Joint Entrance Exam Mains, JEE MAINS
JEE MAINS
is a national-level exam conducted by the National Testing
Agency four times a year. As of 2021, this exam will be conducted in 13 different regional
languages all over the country for students to qualify as viable engineering aspirants. Every
year NTA releases the JEE main exam pattern for this Computer Based Test. Being the Most common
and nationally acceptable exam for BTech and BE aspirants, JEE mains scores are considered valid
in all universities offering this program. The paper is divided into two sections, one for MCQ
questions and the other consisting of numerical questions. The duration of the exam spans 3
hours, thus giving the students 90 minutes for each section. There are a total of 300 questions
from intermediate-level mathematics, physics, and chemistry. As per the revised criteria,
there’s no need for students to have secured a minimum of 75% marks to be eligible, except, they
must’ve passed class 12th. Students can appear for JEE mains a maximum of 12 times, in
consecutive three years.
2) Joint Entrance Exam Advanced, JEE ADVANCED
This exam is considered the second leg of JEE mains and is conducted by the IITs. Students who
qualify for the jee mains exam and fall in the category of top 25000 students are eligible to
attempt the
jee advanced
exam
. The registration usually begins in the first week of May, and a detailed
information brochure is released by IIT Kharagpur containing all necessary information about the
changes in the syllabus and the exam pattern. Like jee Mains, this one is a 3-hour
computer-based test as well.
3) Birla Institute Of Technology And Science Admission Test, BITSAT
Birla Institute of Technology and Science is one of the most prestigious and renowned
Institutions offering BTech engineering courses to students in India. The institution conducts
this University Level Examination once a year, and the applications roll in online mode from
February to June. This exam is conducted in the English language and the duration is 3 hours.
BITSAT tests a student's English proficiency, level of knowledge in physics and chemistry,
mathematics or biology, along with logical reasoning. An important thing to note about this exam
is that there are 150 MCQ based questions, and while each correct answer rewards three marks,
one mark is deducted for every incorrect answer.
4) Karnataka Common Entrance Test, KCET
KCET is a state-level exam conducted by Karnataka Examinations Authority once a year to provide
admission to Engineering aspirants in colleges situated in Karnataka. This exam is conducted in
pen and paper mode and spans one hour and 20 minutes per paper consisting of two papers. There
are a total of 180 multiple choice based questions divided equally between both the papers, one
being math’s and the second being Physics and Chemistry. Only those citizens of India who have
passed class 12th with mandatory subjects like physics, chemistry, maths and English with a
minimum aggregate of 45% for unreserved categories and 40% for reserved categories are eligible
to appear for this exam. This exam is conducted in English as well as Kannada to make it
convenient for regional aspirants. There is no negative marking and one mark is allotted for
each correct answer.
5) Banasthali Vidyapeeth aptitude test
This university-level exam is conducted by this institution once a year to enable students to
apply for engineering programs in their college. Application forms are released in online mode
around the last week of February and go up until mid-June. Banasthali Vidyapeeth Aptitude Test
is conducted in offline mode and consists of three sections namely, Physics and Chemistry,
mathematics, and the third one being logical reasoning. A total number of hundred questions are
asked and one mark is awarded for every correct answer while 1/4th mark is deducted for every
incorrect one. Only those candidates are eligible to apply who have passed their 12th standard
with 60% aggregate in physics, chemistry and maths individually for unreserved categories and
40% for reserved categories.
6) Maharashtra Common Entrance Test, MHCET
MHCET is a state-level entrance exam that takes place once a year by the State common entrance
test cell Maharashtra to allow students of this state to take admission into engineering
programs. There are approximately 342 Institutes that will participate in this exam as of 2021.
This is a Computer Based Test that consists of two sections, the first being Physics and
Chemistry and the second one being Mathematics. The maximum marks for this exam are 200, divided
equally between these two sections and the number of questions remains 150 which are further
equally divided between the three subjects, all MCQ based. This exam is conducted in English,
Urdu, and Marathi languages for Physics and Chemistry sections and only in English for the maths
section.
7) Vellore Institute Of Technology And Engineering Entrance Exam, VITEEE
Vellore institute of technology conducts this engineering entrance exam every year for students
to get admission into their engineering courses. There are a total of 20 courses in combination
that are offered to BTech students. The application forms for this exam are released in November
of the previous academic year and go up till May in the next academic year. This exam is
proctored remotely and the duration is 2.5 hours. As of 2021, the question paper shall consist
of a total of 80 questions distributed in five sections, including multiple-choice questions in
either mathematics or biology, physics chemistry general aptitude and English. Correct answer 1
mark is allotted and no negative marking persists. Even though the exam is conducted online, the
provision of online counselling is not available.
8) SRM Joint Engineering Entrance Exam, SRMJEEE
SRMJEEE is a university level examination that takes place once a year for students who wish to
pursue their graduation in engineering. The exam consists of 125 multiple choice questions,
containing one mark each with no negative marking, divided into five sections. The maximum marks
for physics and Chemistry are 35 each, 40 marks are devoted to mathematics or biology, 5 for
English and 10 for aptitude. The duration of the exam is 2 hours and 30 minutes and phase one of
the applications, usually, the comments are in December of the previous academic year. A total
number of 6 SRMs situated in kattankulathur, Ramapuram, Vadapalani, NCR Ghaziabad, Amravati, and
Delhi NCR Sonepat respectively would be participating in SRM JEEE 2021.
9) Aligarh Muslim University Entrance Exam, AMUEE
AMUEE is a university-level exam conducted once a year by Aligarh Muslim University. The
application form is usually released in May. For b.tech, the syllabus includes class 11th and
12th level proficiency in PCM. This 2-hour test ensures the admission of qualifying students
into the B.tech program, based on the availability of seats and the rank that each student
secures in AMUEE. For b tech, 7 cities are the test centers for AMUEE, namely Bihar, Srinagar,
Kozhikode, Bhopal, Aligarh, Lucknow, and Kolkata.
10) Chhattisgarh Pre Engineering Test, CGPET
CGPET is a state-level exam conducted in offline mode by Chhattisgarh Professional Examination
Board once every year. The online application form is released every year in the last week of
April. This exam is conducted in almost 28 cities and students are given admission based on
merit in the qualifying exam. Like every other exam, 3 sections consist of questions from
physics, chemistry, and maths, and the duration of the exam is 3 hours. There are a total of 150
questions of one mark each with no negative marking for incorrect responses. To appear for this
exam the student must have studied physics, chemistry, and maths in 12th standard and should
have secured a minimum aggregate of 45%. For the reserved category, the minimum qualifying
percentage is 40. The maximum age limit to appear in this exam is 30 years. Another important
thing to note is that candidates appearing for this examination must provide a domicile
certificate as per the government guidelines.
Thus, all these top 10 engineering entrance exams mentioned above are conducted on the university
level, state level, and national level every year for engineering aspirants to secure admissions
in premier institutes. Apart from the 23 IITs, 31 NITs, and other centrally funded technical
institutions, students also stand a chance to get admission into various private institutions
offering B.Tech in all domains of engineering.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
