Top Engineering Colleges in Delhi NCR: Rank, Fees, Placement, and Admission
Source: https://liet.in/blog/b-tech-engineering-college-delhi-ncr.html

Top Engineering Colleges in Delhi NCR: Rank, Fees, Placement, and Admission
Home
Top
Engineering Colleges in Delhi NCR: Rank, Fees, Placement, and Admission
01,June
2021
Introduction
As a top-rated, financially secure, and highly prestigious profession, the engineering sector
has witnessed the establishment of a plethora of institutes over the last years. This has been
done to make this course accessible to students from all strata of society. Every day, more and
more students are realizing the number of prospects this course has to offer. Students begin
preparing for their admissions to this course as soon as they opt for P-C-M as their chosen
stream.
Top B. Tech Govt. Colleges in Delhi NCR With Their Ranks And Fees
S.No.
Name Of The College
Fees (Rs. Annual)
Rank (NIRF)
Indian Institute Of Technology
8.4 Lakhs
Delhi Technological University
7.81 Lakhs
Indraprastha Institute Of Information Technology
14 Lakhs
Netaji Subhas University Of Technology New Delhi
8.44 Lakhs
Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University
5.73 Lakhs
National Institute Of Technology Delhi
6. 37 Lakhs
JC Bose University Of Science And Technology YMCA
4.2 Lakhs
120
National Institute Of Food Technology, Sonepat
5.91 Lakhs
121
Ambedkar Institute Of Advanced Communication Technologies And Research Delhi
1.60 Lakhs
Gb Pant Government Engineering College Delhi
1 .5 Lakhs
Top B. Tech Private Colleges in Delhi NCR With Their Fees
Fees
Lloyd Institute Of Engineering And Technology Greater Noida
Shiv Nadar University Greater Noida
9.25 Lakhs
The NorthCap University Gurgaon
10.13 Lakhs
Amity School Of Engineering Noida
6.99 Lakhs
Jaypee Institute Of Information Technology Noida
10.41 Lakhs
Gl Bajaj Institute Of Technology And Management Greater Noida
5.45 Lakhs
Galgotia College Of Engineering And Technology Greater Noida
4.72 Lakhs
Bharati Vidyapeeth College Of Engineering Delhi
4.82 Lakhs
Maharaja Agrasen Institute Of Technology Delhi
Noida Institute Of Engineering And Technology Greater Noida
4.39 Lakhs
The
list of Engineering Colleges
offering B tech courses to students in both the private sector and public sector are mentioned
above. Now that you know the top colleges in Delhi NCR you should be of opting for, let us look
at the admission criteria below:
Criteria To Get Admission Into B Tech Colleges in Delhi NCR
Eligibility criteria to get admission into various universities is the same across all colleges.
These terms are non-negotiable and compulsory. Following are the basis that students are
required to meet:
The students must have completed class 12th with a minimum aggregate of 40-45%.
The students must have had physics, chemistry, and maths (non-medical) in class 11th and
12th.
The students must have cleared any of the state-level or university-level examinations and
met the cut-off to qualify for admission. The main exam that students usually prepare for is
JEE Mains and Advanced.
Placement For Students Pursuing B Tech In Delhi NCR
Placement is the foremost thing that students look up to while selecting the colleges. The
placement opportunity that any college provides is usually a founding ground for the aspirants,
as this is where the career of a student takes the driver’s seat. It is always a sound idea to
check the placement ratings of a college before taking admission. Students are placed in the
topmost companies after graduating with BTech. Following are the companies that hire for all of
the branches of engineering.
Amazon
Hyundai
Cognizant
HSBC
Google
Kellogg's
Samsung
Honda
Wipro
Intel Corporation
Tech Mahindra
Tata Consultancy Services
Infosys
HCL
IBM
Flipkart
Sapient
Capgemini
Genpact
The list proves that financial stability, career growth, and exposure to leadership positions in
the top 20 global networking companies are a very feasible possibility after taking up
engineering. Technology is the driving force of the current time. Almost all business models
need to have some technical aspects into their venture for them to thrive, grow and stay in the
business, and this is possible only after they’ve adopted the dynamics of technology, making it
an inseparable element of their enterprise. Thus,
engineering offers endless scope to students
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
