Career Options After B.Tech Civil Engineering - LIET
Source: https://liet.in/blog/career-after-civil-engineering.html

Career Options After B.Tech Civil Engineering - LIET
Home
Career
Options After B.Tech Civil Engineering - LIET
24,June
2021
Introduction
Whether we talk about building a flyover, a water treatment plant, an aircraft, or a military
base, the fundamental contribution of civil engineers to society, including all its units, shall
always be primal. Which is to say, in 10 years or 100, civil engineering as a profession will
always be blooming as the demand for instilling more sustainable infrastructure rises. In such a
day and age, young aspirants looking forward to building a
career in
civil engineering
are set on the right path. Considered to be one of the oldest branches
of engineering, civil engineering primarily deals with the design, plan, and manufacture, and
maintenance of structures and building, taking into account every brief technical detail that
goes into it.
Why Study Civil Engineering?
1. Need of the hour
We’re living in an era where a lot of emphasis is being laid on environmental issues and climate
crises. The only plausible solutions to these major problems can be handled under the expertise
of civil engineers. For instance, handling the water retention and distribution process are the
work area of civil engineers specialised in hydrology, erosion, habitat preservation etc.
Without their guidance and practical input, taking a step towards the cause is impossible.
2. Futuristic
At this point, it is irrefutable to say that computers and computing have changed the face of the
modern world. The amalgamation of computer-aided design (CAD) software with civil engineering
has allowed the engineers to craft 3rd-dimensional models of infrastructural projects, thereby
aiding them to cut extra time and costs to be invested in undertaking construction projects.
This has in turn enabled more smart and more disruptive infrastructure fundamental to an
effective economy, thus expanding the scope of civil engineers.
3. Flexibility
Gone are the times when civil engineering encompassed hours of ground-level work with tedious
up-and-downs and a restriction of working only on civil construction projects. This field has
been continuing to evolve over the years and has now entailed multiple profiles, both
independent and in combination. Whether you want to work as a field professional, office goer,
designer, supervisor, private consultant, educationist, or even a manager, civil engineering
offers you a wide array of employment opportunities to carve a personalized career path.
What Can You Do After Doing Civil Engineering?
1. Higher education
After completing a btech degree in civil engineering, students can pursue higher education by
opting for a Mtech degree in a specialised branch of civil engineering. To lend an idea of
prospects available for engineering students, there are domains like Aerospace engineering,
Construction engineering, environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, material
engineering, urban planning and development, Hydraulics, water resources planning and
development. transportation, structural engineering, and many more.
2. Research and development
Civil engineers also have an option of pursuing a doctorate in their chosen specialization and
take up research opportunities to devise new findings that help in solving specific problems
pertaining to infrastructure. The scope of research in this domain of engineering is vast
because of the availability of so many specializations, and the urgent need of turning plausible
solutions into definite plans to facilitate the building and construction of upcoming and
diverse projects.
3. Government jobs
Civil engineers, along with the private sector, have the chance of working in the government
sector as well. Every year, various authorities like SEBI, UPSC, IISc and IITs, etc. conduct
various exams like
GATE,
IES , SSC JE, RRB
JE and SE to allow engineers a chance of working in government sectors. Civil engineers
sometimes also get the prospect of working for government projects after several contesting
firms pitch their proposals. For example, the ongoing Central Vista Project 2021.
4. Management
A civil engineer essentially works at various infrastructural projects, that hone their project
management skills through constant practice and experience. Engineers with ample experience are
often appointed as managerial heads at large companies to oversee ongoing projects, revise
strategy, supervise the workforce, track progress, and also assist in technical accuracy. These
abilities are imparted in civil engineers with time and ensure an open channel of lifelong job
prospects, especially in the management sector.
5. Technical Jobs
Right after graduating with a btech degree in civil engineering, maximum students are either
placed into big companies through campus placements or apply for jobs at various prestigious
civil engineering companies. A btech degree in civil engineering fetches the students the power,
prestige as well as opportunity to work at top tier firms with excellent compensation, job
stability, an opportunity for advancement, and a challenging as well as adaptive work
environment. Following are the various profiles that civil engineers can work at, along with
their description.
Job Profiles And Job Descriptions Of Civil Engineers
S. No.
Job Profiles
Job Description
Architectural Engineer
Designing, building prototypes, ensuring the implementation of designs and altering them
whenever required.
Aerospace Engineer
Designing aircraft, monitoring aerodynamic performance, testing and improving their
capacities to facilitate its usage.
Structural Engineer
Designing functional and visually appealing structures using computer software.
Geotechnical Engineer
Overseeing the adequacy of construction materials required for a strong foundation,
determining construction methods, and developing excavation techniques.
Project Site Inspectors / Construction Engineers
Scheduling construction activity at every step, coordinating with designers to
facilitate an effective and flawless outcome.
Transportation Engineer
Designing transit models, improving structures through reconstruction, renovation, and
maintenance.
Project Managers
Assume full responsibility for compliance with safety codes, supervising sequential
progress and ensure the alignment of all aspects of construction.
Chief Technical Officers
Overseeing any/all technical upgradation at all levels and ensuring all operations are
in sync with the latest technology.
Engineering Consultant
Assisting companies in solving all technical issues/ doubts and guiding them towards the
best course of option after considering all inputs.
10.
Analyst
Compiling and analyzing data to interpret suitable measures towards the company’s
interest.
Job Profiles And Average Annual Salary Of Civil Engineers In 2021
S.No.
Average annual Salary (in Rs.)
4 - 5 lakh
8 lakh
6 lakh
5.2 lakh
5 lakh
12-14 lakh
15-20 lakh
15 lakh
Conclusion
Considering the numbers given above, one thing is crystal clear, the scope of pursuing civil
engineering is not only professionally rewarding but also profitable. In the ongoing times,
several technologies have shaken hands with civil engineers as more lucrative projects are
emerging, thus opening up the pool of opportunities available for them. Hence, the career
options after btech in civil engineering in 2021 are many and each of immense value. As young
professionals in the domain of science and technology, civil engineers must brace themselves for
working at valuable positions and change the shape of tomorrow through their skill-based
efforts.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
