Government jobs after B tech in India – All about it
Source: https://liet.in/blog/government-job-after-b-tech.html

Government jobs after B tech in India – All about it
Home
B.Tech
Lateral Courses and Admission Eligibility – All about it
29,July
2021
Introduction
In engineering, you don’t just study technical things, you also gain moral and
intellectual values that go a long way in giving a concrete shape to your future.
Engineering opens up a lot of job potential in the private as well as government
sectors. As we all know, jobs in the government sector are very much in demand. Its
various benefits like high job security, lucrative perks, higher promotional avenues,
high stature jobs, low stress, and restricted job timings trump everything else. You can
get a government job after BTech as much as you can from other industries. All you need
to do is crack the exams and hit the happiness button of your life! Let us look at
government Job opportunities after BTech:
1.Defence Services
Indian Defence Services are known to be one of the most respected and prestigious
services out there. The amount of perks in this job is insane, from accommodations and
promotions to medical benefits as well as their famous in-house canteens. The pay scale
is pretty great too. You can apply to the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Airforce provided
you pass the SSB test, and are medically fit. Getting recruited at these posts comes
with high status and a respectable salary. It also has a University Entry Scheme through
which a student who is pursuing engineering and is in the last year of their studies, is
eligible to apply for this type of entry.
2.Scientists (Research and Development)
ISRO, DRDO, BARC, and some other firms recruit the cream candidates every year. For this,
you will have to either clear the GATE exam, or the one they conduct. As they have a
very active and strong work environment, the competition is pretty high. Although the
job is highly demanding, nonetheless the benefits like lucrative salary and dynamic work
environment make it worth your time, effort, and investment.
3.Public Sector Undertakings (PSU)
As quoted by javatpoint, “PSU stands for Public Sector Undertaking. The government-owned
corporations are known as Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) in India. PSUs are created
by the government to undertake commercial projects under its own banner.”
You can apply to PSUs by giving the GATE examination. This will give you access to
companies like BHEL, ONGC, SAIL, IOCL, etc. These companies actively recruit eligible
engineering candidates every year. The growth potential at PSUs is enormous. Since these
companies are not much focused on profits, you will work actively towards the
development of your nation.
4.UPSC (Union Public Service Commission)
This is by far the most prestigious examination in the country. Every Single Year UPSC
conducts the Engineering Services Examination, which is one of the toughest examinations
to crack, held in India. You can also apply for foreign universities after clearing GATE
to get a job in this sector.
5.Central Bureau of Investigation
Getting a job in CBI is highly exceptional. It is popular for its superb services with
handsome pay scales and medical benefits. Further, it offers good promotional
opportunities. The entry to CBI opens via two exam bodies, UPSC and SSC.
6.Indian Railways
The Railway departments of India organize entrance examinations once a year for the
recruitment of qualified candidates in the railway sectors. The railway aspirants can
work under the signal section of Indian railways. The two important job profiles are
Senior Section Engineer (SSE) and Junior Engineer (JE), and the conducting body of these
exams is RRB. The job is very stress-free and comes with its own perks and benefits.
7.SSC CGL
SSC CGL is a Government-run agency responsible for recruiting staff to different
Governmental Departments and organizations. There are vacancies for group b and
nontechnical Group c posts and different ministries departments under a central
government where specifically engineers are employed. SSC recruits on a very large scale
every year, offering a variety of posts like Income Tax Inspector, Excise Inspector, and
so on. The advantage of these jobs is that it has an extremely high number of vacancies
and vacancies are opened very frequently.
8.Banking Sector
The banking sector recruits for the post of Clerks and Probationary Officers (PO) on a
very large scale every year. PO post is a highly reputed job with lucrative perks, high
power, and authority, and various other benefits. Getting recruited as a PO in
Government sector banks may be a dream nurtured by a large number of Engineers. This is
one of the most popular options since the work pressure is extremely less and perks are
considerably good.
9.Clerical Personnel or IT Officer in Public Sector Banks
People working at clerical positions in public sector banks enjoy benefits like having
more than a reasonable pay scale, stress-free workdays, cyclic promotions and security
of the job, stress-free work, and other benefits combined. Getting hired as a Clerk
provides a very good pay scale, job security, low stress, promotional opportunities, and
numerous other benefits. Even though it is an entry-level position, it provides good
perks as well as various other allowances much better than the private sector.
Moreover, Every year, a large number of vacancies are released for the post of IT
officers who will be responsible for developing and implementing technology solutions in
the organization. Its Officers are recruited through various exams conducted by
different Banks. Officers enjoy a very respectable pay scale, good reputation in
society, low-pressure jobs along with numerous other benefits.
10.Banking and Financial Sector
RBI conducts its examination for various posts such as assistant and Grade B officer.
These jobs are highly respected in society and are extremely competitive. You will need
to work really hard for this. The pay is basically excellent during this and therefore
the tag of RBI is at another level. Another government regulatory body under the
government of India is the Securities and exchange board of India (SEBI), which conducts
its examination for Grade A officers every year. Even though the exams are highly
competitive, working under the Government of India has its own charms and benefits.
Conclusion
Getting a government job is not an easy task in India especially if you don’t prepare
exclusively for it. You have to work extremely hard and sharpen your technical and
non-technical skills before you can apply. This is because you won’t be able to apply
repeatedly for this year after year since the upper age limit is 27 years(more or less)
for government jobs in India. Thus, if you're from an engineering background and do not
want to get yourself trapped in the corporate culture of 9-5, and need a more relaxing
and highly positioned, responsible job, then this article is just what you need to read.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
