What is the highest paid engineering [A Complete Guide]
Source: https://liet.in/blog/highest-paid-engineering-branch-and-jobs.html

What is the highest paid engineering [A Complete Guide]
Home
What
is the highest paid engineering [A Complete Guide]
02 ,May
2022
Introduction
Engineering is an ever-adulated discipline by the students. Students from all over India
put efforts to get into the
best Engineering
colleges
for pursuing engineering because
it secures students' futures in the best possible way. In technical terms, engineering
is “the branch of science and technology concerned with the design, building, and use of
engines, machines, and structures.” Needless to say, this stream is meant for those who
take an interest in machines or structures and own a humongous knack for physics and
math. Engineering is the process in which one learns how to apply science and technology
in various aspects of day-to-day life so that it can be led effortlessly.
It is engineering from which most of the innovations stem.
Engineering is the course
for
curious minds who are always on the lookout for changing the world.
This
discipline has
been practised for aeons-the Pyramids of Giza, Humayun’s Tomb, Taj Mahal, etc.,
witnesses of fine engineering that existed in ancient times. The scope and reach of
engineering are vast. It begins from a structure as tiny as a cell to something as large
as a spacecraft. Engineering pioneered the evolution of the modern lifestyle.
Needless to say that this course is thus one of the most sought after ones. The
scope of
the engineering sector
is dilating day by day. Students are mostly
attracted to this
course because of the plethora of opportunities and the handsome remuneration it grants.
Engineering Payscale:
The discipline of Engineering has innumerable specializations and each specialization has
a different payscale based on the demand. Usually, the demand varies but there are some
streams of specializations that have a persistent demand throughout. Experience has a
very important role to play in determining the pay scale of a person in the engineering
sector. It also depends on the designation or the post a person holds in an organization
or office.
Despite some claiming that this discipline has, at present, reached a saturation point,
the demand for engineers never ceased. The general salary of an engineer ranges
somewhere between 3 lakhs per annum to 46 lakh per annum. Some may even get a package as
high as 1 crore per annum depending on their expertise in the course, designation and
experience. However, in the government sector, the salary ranges between 4 lakhs to 15
lakhs per annum.
Given below is a table that will help the readers relevantly comprehend the engineering
pay scale in a better way.
Branch of Engineering
Average Annual Salary in Rupees
Computer Science and Engineering
5.5 lakhs - 37 lakhs
Aerospace Engineering
6 lakhs- 25.5 lakhs
Chemical Engineering
7 lakhs- 22 lakhs
Electronics and Communication Engineering
4.5 lakhs-14 lakhs
Civil Engineering
3.4 lakhs- 10 lakhs
Electrical Engineering
2.7 lakhs- 9.9 lakhs
Big Data Engineering
4.5 lakhs- 15 lakhs
Petroleum Engineering
5.1 lakhs- 41.2 lakhs
Nuclear Engineering
5.3 lakhs- 14 lakhs
Metallurgical Engineering
4 lakhs- 8 lakhs
Topmost Engineering Branches with Highest Salaries
Although students are always advised to take up those specializations which stir their
interest, the fact that job opportunity and future scope play a huge role in deviating a
student toward a particular field cannot be denied. Students usually mull over the
question of which stream will furnish them with the best scope and opportunities in the
future. Stability is desired by everyone hence the youth usually gets inclined to those
particular engineering streams which not only instigate their passion but also promise
them a bright future.
Given below is a list of the five highest-paying
Specialization in
Engineering
along with
a basic insight into the aspects that these branches cover.
Computer Science Engineering:
With a salary range of 5 lakhs to 1 crore
per annum, this stream has attained the position of the most coveted course in
the field of engineering. This course is concerned with the topics related to
computation, programming languages, program design, computer hardware and
software. It amalgamates several fields of computer science. In today’s digital
era, the scope of Computer Science Engineering will only broaden.
Mechanical Engineering:
The field of mechanical engineering involves
planning and manufacturing of new products in heavy manufacturing industries,
such as steel, metals, alloys and automobiles. Adept mechanical engineers are
required to monitor the evolved automation at present. This stream allows one to
land a job that pays 3lakhs to 21 lakhs per annum.
Electronics and Communication Engineer:
This deals with the study of
design, manufacture, insertion and operation of electronic equipment, system,
machinery, telecommunication systems like radars, sonar, integrated circuits,
processors, satellites and many more. This rapidly growing field offers jobs in
the private as well as the government sectors. The salary of an Electronics and
Communication Engineer ranges between 5 lakhs to 22 lakhs.
Big Data Engineer:
Organizations have started to realize the humongous
importance that data holds in the current scenario. This makes big data
engineers spark professional jobs that pay 3 lakhs to 18 lakhs per annum.
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Engineer:
This is the era of
artificial intelligence. From self-driven cars to Alexa and Siri, we are
witnessing flourishing buds of this sector in various domains. It is considered
to be one of the highest paying branches of Engineering with a lump sum amount
that ranges between 10 lakhs to 50 lakhs per annum.
Enroll for
B tech Admission
Delhi NCR
5 Ways to Choose an Engineering Branch
Interest:
The first and most important factor that instigates a student to
opt for any particular engineering branch is his or her interest in that
particular course.
ROI:
ROI or Return on Investment is an important factor that must also be
taken into account before choosing an engineering branch. The branch that you
are choosing must give proper and satisfactory returns in terms of monetary
value versus its cost.
Career Growth:
A student must always opt for that particular engineering
branch that gives him a fast scope for career growth globally.
Synchronization with current times:
As said earlier, engineering is a
discipline that is fueled by the demand of the market. Thus, it is very
important for the branch a student opts for, to have a proper synchronization
with current times. Outdated branches will not only constrict learning but also
restrict development on the career front.
Payscale:
The most important factor that a person must remember while
choosing a particular branch is the pay scale that he will get shortly. It is
always advisable to opt for a course that lets one secure a stable future.
Who is the highest-paid engineer?
To answer a question like this, one has to resort to statistics and research. Based on
the same, a continuous style demonstrating the popularity of
software
engineering
has
been found. This conclusion also includes a proper record of the placement and general
perception of those who pursued these courses.
The high pay scale of software engineers owes to the supply and demand factor. One
requires an efficient software engineer to develop an app and at present, apps are
launched almost every day. No wonder software engineers have such high demands in the
job market in the current internet era. Life without the dedicated hard work of these
engineers will come to a standstill.
Conclusion:
It may be difficult to gauge the perfect engineering stream one must opt for after their
schooling but if you take the help of statistics and thoroughly researched data, you can
easily find yeh accurate career for yourself. Although research shows that software
engineers are the highest paid, that does not mean a person must feel discouraged to
pursue an Engineering branch of their choice. As long as the course one is planning to
opt for is relevant, let's one get accomplished in life instill curiosity in the
student, the former one should never have second thoughts in their mind.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
