Engineering colleges offer admission without JEE Main Score
Source: https://liet.in/blog/engineering-colleges-admission-without-jee-main-score.html

Engineering colleges offer admission without JEE Main Score
Home
Engineering
colleges offer admission without JEE Main Score
15,June
2021
Introduction
JEE mains exam is known to be the most widely accepted
engineering entrance exam in
India
. For IITs, NITs and CFTIs, this exam is a prerequisite along with other specified
criteria. However, considering the number of applicants that touched a staggering number of 22
lakhs in 2021, the chances of students that get through the permissible rank is very little. At
times, this invokes feelings of helplessness in candidates as their chances of making it through
and obtaining admission to premier engineering institutions gets restricted. This is where most
private universities step in. At the end of the day, what you pursue holds more significance
than where you pursue it from. To make higher education accessible for all, there are other
exams for engineering that open up a lot of options for aspiring candidates to pursue their
dream course.
Types of Exams to Pursue B.Tech in Engineering
To pursue bachelors of technology or a
bachelor’s of engineering in
, there are three levels of exams and a candidate has to clear at least one of them
to secure admission in these courses. A program as prestigious as engineering requires a minimum
level of background in the three main functional subjects, physics, chemistry and math’s. This
is why engineering entrance exams are required, in order to qualify the students that are
passionate about pursuing a career in engineering.
I. National Level Exams For B.Tech
National level exams are conducted throughout the country, and any candidate can appear for
these exams, given they satisfy the eligibility criteria. Mostly, institutes of national
importance consider these exams a necessity to grant admission to students into engineering
courses. The most common exams that fall under this are JEE mains and JEE advance.
II. State Level Exams To Study Engineering
These exams are conducted on a state level, and all universities accepting these exams are
situated in that particular state itself. Usually, appearing for these exams requires the
students to submit a domicile certificate. Many private and public universities participate in
these exams and offer the students of that state a chance to pursue B.tech or BE courses in
their university.
III. University Level Exams To Pursue Btech In Engineering
University level examinations are those entrance exams that are specific to each university.
Unlike state and national level exams, only one university accepts these entrances and students
who manage to make it through their provisional lists are given admission into these
universities after counselling is done. Both public and private universities come under this
category.
Top Engineering Exams Other Than JEE Mains
Since JEE mains and JEE advance comes under national level exams, the other two categories are
spared. There are still a plethora of exams available for engineering aspirants to secure
admission into prestigious universities. Many students believe that there’s no hope for them if
they don't rank high enough in their
JEE
exam
. But that is untrue, and there are a multiplicity of institutions that offer
students lucrative future prospects without considering the JEE score. Given below is a list of
exams on both state level as well as university levels that allow students a chance to get
admission into their courses without their JEE score.
State Level Entrance Exams for Engineering and Their Full Forms
Students must note that a lot of colleges situated in a particular state accept students for
admission into engineering courses based on the marks they score in these exams. Students must
look up the names of the universities participating every year, as it keeps getting updated with
some universities entering and some withdrawing.
S.No.
Name of the college
Full-Form Of The Exams
KRLMPCA CET
Karnataka Religious & Linguistic Minority Professional Colleges Association Common
Entrance Test
JKCET
Jammu And Kashmir Common Entrance Test
COMEDK UGET
Consortium Of Medical Engineering & Dental Colleges Of Karnataka Under Graduate
AP EAMCET
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Agriculture Medical Common Entrance Test
OJEE
Odisha Joint Entrance Examination
HPCET
Himachal Pradesh Common Entrance Test
GCET
Goa Common Entrance Test
KCET
Karnataka Common Entrance Test
KEAM
Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical
UPCET
Uttar Pradesh Common Entrance Test
WBJEE
West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination
TS EAMCET
Telangana State Engineering Agriculture And Medical Common Entrance Test
GUJCET
Gujarat Common Entrance Test
BCECE LE
Bihar Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Lateral Entry
HARYANA LEET
Haryana Lateral Engineering Entrance Test
TS ECET
Telangana State Engineering Common Entrance Test
AP ECET
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test
JELET
Joint Entrance Exam For Lateral Entry
JLEE
Joint Lateral Entry Examination
MHT CET
Maharashtra Common Entrance Test
List of Colleges That Offer Admission Without JEE Score, Along With the Entrance Exam
(University Level)
Name of the College/University
VITEEE
Vellore Institute Of Technology
UPESEAT
University Of Petroleum And Energy Studies
SRMJEEE
SRM University
CIEAT
Crescent Institute Engineering Admission
BEEE
Bharath Institute Of Higher Education And Research
AEEE
Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham (Amrita University)
KLEEE
KL University
HITSEEE
Hindustan Institute Of Technology And Science
GEEE
Galgotias University
AMITY JEE
Amity University
SAEEE
Sathyabama Institute Of Science And Technology
CUEE
Centurion University
ALLIANCE AUEET
Alliance University
AMU ENTRANCE TEST
Aligarh Muslim University
BITSAT
Birla Institute Of Technology And Science
CUSAT CAT
Cochin University Of Science And Technology
GITAM GAT
Gitam University
KIITEE
Kalinga Institute Of Industrial Technology
REVA CET
Reva University
SAAT
Siksha 'o' Anusandhan University
SMIT ONLINE TEST
Sikkim Manipal Institute Of Technology
LPU NEST
Lovely Professional University
NPAT
Narsee Monjee Institute Of Management Studies
MET
Manipal University
PESSAT
PES University
SET
Symbiosis Institute Of Technology
CUET
Christ University
AJEE
AISECT University
BV AT
Banasthali Vidyapeeth
VTUEEE
The comprehensive list compiling the state level entrance exams as well as university level
entrance exams along with the colleges and universities that accept those are given above. This
suggests that it's not ‘the end of the world’ if the students could not score high enough in
their JEE exam. There are a lot of factors that may affect the individual rank and that has
nothing to do with any student's capability. These factors majorly consist of the number of
applications that enroll for this exam, with India being the second-most populous country, it’s
not a surprise that the number is considerably high. It may be surprising to some, but there are
presently more than 3500 colleges that have Btech or BE degrees in engineering. So even if you
may not make it in the top 20 institutions, you still have a long shot at several others.
Students also must keep a backup plan ready and rigorously apply to the shortlisted colleges
according to their choice of course, preferences and other factors that they might consider
important.
Thus, apart from IITs and NITs, there are a vast number of colleges that come to the rescue for
students who wish to fetch a degree in engineering, including private and public institutions
both, many of which are listed above.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
