Btech IT (Information Technology) Syllabus and Subjects – Semester wise
Source: https://liet.in/blog/b-tech-it-syllabus.html

Btech IT (Information Technology) Syllabus and Subjects – Semester wise
Home
Btech IT
(Information Technology) Syllabus and Subjects – Semester wise
04, April
2022
What Is B Tech in Information Technology
B-tech IT is a professional program that focuses on the development, implementation,
application, and administration of technology using software and hardware. It is
tailored for applicants who are passionate about coding, application development,
business analysis, and technical analysis on the IT side, along with directing,
structuring, and establishing control systems, etc and assuring a profitable and
substantial execution on the management side.
B Tech IT Course Structure
This course is divided into 8 semesters spread across 4 years. This is a more
application-based course as opposed to CSE, which involves a little more peep into the
theoretical aspects of technology. The best thing about studying information technology
is that it’s a subsystem of CSE, which means the best, most required, and relevant
course material is crunched from the CSE studies making IT a more tailored study. Most
of what is taught is directly applicable to real-time work demands. The course structure
of IT is diverse as it involves subjects from the
computer science
branch, making it a
comprehensive study. A credit-based system is followed to determine the grand-GPA, which
means involvement in all internal and external assessments, seminars, labs, project
works, field works, etc.is taken into consideration.
Eligibility Criteria Required To Study B-tech in Information Technology
The basic qualifying standards stay the same, although the details may differ from one
college to the next. Before applying, students should double-check that they meet the
standards of each institution.
Students must have received their 12th-grade diploma from a recognized
institution, such as CBSE, ISCE, or a state board.
Students in the non-med stream must have studied physics, chemistry, and math in
12th grade. English is also a required subject at several institutions.
For restricted categories, pupils must have received a minimum of 45 per cent and
for unreserved categories, a minimum of 40 per cent. This varies from government to
private universities, as some colleges need a minimum aggregate of 75 per cent in
class 12 with 60 per cent in each of the three major disciplines.
Students must adhere to any other qualification as stated by the university they
apply to.
B Tech IT Syllabus In 2022
Because information technology is such a broad field, it has a lot to offer someone who
has recently graduated. IT courses are designed to provide students with the conceptual
knowledge and abilities required by IT firms. Everything is addressed in the B.Tech IT
programme, whether it be software design, production, or research. Given below is the
semester wise break up of subjects taught under this course. Depending upon the
institution, the subjects may vary. However, they’re more or less the same. Let’s look
at the subjects:
Subjects Taught Under Semester 1
computer-aided design and drafting
Semiconductor Physics
Principles of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Programming and Problem Solving
Programming for Problem Solving Lab
Introduction to Computer Science and Engineering
Calculus and Abstract Algebra
Environmental Science
Subjects Taught Under Semester 2
Engineering Physics
Engineering Chemistry
Application-based Programming in Python
Probability and Statistics
Mechanical Workshop
Human Value & Ethics
Subjects Taught Under Semester 3
Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science
Data Structures
Digital Logic Design and Computer Organization
Electronic Devices and Circuits
Basic Electrical Engineering Electrical and Electronics Lab
Data Structures Lab
Subjects Taught Under Semester 4
Principles of Programming Languages
Database Management Systems
Java Programming
Environmental studies
Data Communication
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Java Programming Lab
Database Management Systems Lab
Subjects Taught Under Semester 5
Automata and Compiler Design
Linux Programming
Software Engineering
Operating Systems
Computer Networks
Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis
Operating Systems Lab
Computer Networks Lab (Through Linux)
Subjects Taught Under Semester 6
Web Technologies
Object-Oriented Analysis and Design
Data Warehousing and Data Mining
Software Testing Methodologies
Cloud Computing
Data Mining and Web Technologies Lab
Advanced Communication Skills Lab
Subjects Taught Under Semester 7
Information Security
Design Patterns
Mobile Application Development
Information Retrieval Systems
ELECTIVE – I
Wireless Networks and Mobile
Computing Image Processing and Pattern Recognition
Soft Computing
Semantic Web and Social Networks
Operations Research
ELECTIVE – II
Software Project Management Computer Graphics
Human-Computer Interaction
Scripting Languages
Computer Forensics
Case Tools and Software Testing Lab
Mobile Applications Development Lab
Subjects Taught Under Semester 8
Management Science
ELECTIVE III
Web Services E-Commerce
Middleware Technologies
Ad hoc and Sensor Networks
ELECTIVE IV
Multimedia & Rich Internet Applications
Artificial Intelligence
Storage Area Networks
Machine Learning
Industry Oriented Mini Project
Seminar
Project Work
Common Course Electives to Choose From
S.no.
Electives
Electivesa
Software Reliability
Embedded Systems
VLSI Design
Object-Oriented System Design
Computer Graphics
Computational Complexity
Modelling And Simulation
Datamining
Digital Communication
Advanced Computer Architecture
Mobile Computing
Dependable Computing
Applied Graph Theory
Symbolic Logic
Theory Of Computation
Parallel Algorithms
Principles Of Programming Languages
Robotics
Computational Geometry
Sensor Networks
Image And Video Processing
Fault-Tolerant Systems
Computational Intelligence
Networks And Systems Security
Data Analytics
Digital Signal Processing
Communication Network
Interconnection Networks
Natural Language Processing
High-Performance Computing
Top Career Profiles and Job Description after B-tech In Information Technology
1. Web Specialist—
Website production professionals work with high-end technology
companies and government organizations on online design and content formulation.
2. Network Architect—
the role of the Network Architect is to provide frameworks
and standards for computer systems, including its hardware elements, organisation,
configuration, and interaction. They also consider the system's overall effectiveness
and operational parameters.
3. Computer Analyst—
a system analyst's responsibilities include assessing
software and hardware compatibility, developing new systems, and assisting personnel in
implementing previously built systems.
4. Consultant in Information Technology—
IT consultants work with businesses on a
contract basis, advising them on how to use information technology effectively to
achieve their goals.
5. Officer in Charge of Technology—
Chief Technology Officers are responsible for
supervising the operations of IT workers, evaluating the possible scope of expansion in
a given programme, and assessing the risk involved.
6. Software Developer—
An application developer's job is to create new and
exciting apps for electronic computing devices, as well as to design and evaluate them.
7. Programmer—
Programmers create diverse programmes from the ground up, test them
for functionality, fix any errors that are discovered, and keep meticulous records of
the instructions.
8. Manager of Data Processing—
Data processing managers keep track of all the
activities that take place within the department of information systems and software
applications. They supervise the operations of the division's employees.
Conclusion
Considering a degree in IT not only allows applicants to keep up with technological
advancements but also allows them to grasp the processes underlying them. Every
organisation and the corporate entity must use this procedure as a standard backhand. IT
also broadens the pool of applicants for positions in the telecommunications, ,
education, and business sectors, making it one of the most prospective career options.
There is no possibility of obsolescence. Designing systems, delivering functionality,
operating the system, and administering the system are all part of the job. New
improvements are also made, and beta versions of such technologies are being developed.
As a result, professions in this industry can never be redundant.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
