B. Tech in Electrical Engineering 2021 Courses, Exams, Eligibility
Source: https://liet.in/blog/b-tech-electrical-engineering.html

B. Tech in Electrical Engineering 2021 Courses, Exams, Eligibility
Home
Tech in Electrical Engineering 2021 Courses, Exams, Eligibility
08,June
2021
Introduction
Engineering has been an evergreen profession for the longest of time, which makes it the most
sought-after career line for students who have studied non-medical. More and more upcoming
technologies are emerging in the current times, which makes it a viable as well as a profitable
vocation for students who aspire to be future technologists. Currently, there are over 15
specialisations in engineering offering various combinations of skills and knowledge. These
specializations include computer science engineering, electronics and communication engineering,
mechanical engineering, civil engineering,
electrical engineering
, and
more.
In this article, we’ll look closely at electrical engineering in 2021, and cover its scope,
eligibility criteria, placement status, profiles, and curriculum.
Why electrical engineering?
Electrical engineering is the branch of technology that deals in the designing, developing,
manufacturing, working, and application of systems that require electricity, electronics, and
electromagnetism for their functioning. Businesses in the present times rely heavily on electric
power supply, and sometimes their entire USP is based on the same principle. There are a wide
number of disciplines that are interrelated with electrical engineering, and their integration
is what makes the business viable. The high-tech sector uses information processing and signals
coupled with the functionality of digital electronics, artificial intelligence, control systems,
etc, and requires power at its very core. This deems the domain of electrical engineering a
strong necessity and expands the scope of its application in the present times.
Electrical engineering stands as the most accredited specialisation in the realm of science and
technology and offers the students to work in sectors that make use of cutting-edge technology
to foster growth on global levels. This is because the curriculum for electrical engineering is
designed in an adaptable, upgraded, and advanced manner with the core principles of electrical
engineering intact. Let’s look at the curriculum for electrical engineering in a detailed model.
Curriculum Of Btech In Electrical Engineering
Pursuing a BTech in electrical engineering in 2021 has opened the doors to the study of various
systems that are in alignment with modern market dynamics. Considering the present scenario, the
need for the development of mechanisms that focus on refinement and precision, is fool-proof,
and optimised at the micro-level has risen manifolds. Electrical engineering aids in ensuring
these specifications are met and controls these systems at the most basic levels. The curriculum
for BTech in electrical engineering spans 8 semesters in a period of 4 years. Students are
taught the essentials of this domain in the first semester, along with a little of what other
specialisations of engineering have in common, like computer programming, data analysis and
interpretation, linear algebra etc. from here the curriculum progress into a more complex and
comprehensive study of subjects encompassing the domain of electrical engineering.
Given below is the list of subjects that electrical engineering students are taught. The main
objective of a well-rounded curriculum is to strengthen the basic concepts and enable students
to dwell in the vastness of those subjects. An enriching curriculum also allows students to
progress into the complexities of electrical engineering, as well as gain a stronghold of the
technicalities surrounding it.
Subjects Under Electrical Engineering
Introduction To Electrical Systems
Electricity And Magnetism
Introduction To Electronics
Network Theory
Electronic Devices
Signals And Systems
Analogue Circuits
Electrical Machines And Power Electronics
Digital Systems
Microprocessors
Electromagnetic Waves
Digital Signal Processing
Digital Communications
Power Systems
Electronics Design
Control And Communication
Power Electronics
Physical Electronics
Circuit Simulation In Power Electronic
Behavioral Theory Of Systems
Physics Of Transistors
Entrance exams for electrical engineering
Students aspiring to pursue a career in electrical engineering are required to appear for the
common entrance tests that are a must to secure admission in any university offering b tech.
There’s no exclusive exam for electrical engineering per se, all entrance exams open up a common
opportunity for students, and they can decide their specialisation according to their
preference, as well as on the basis of marks they manage to secure in the entrance exam. Let’s
look at the
top 15 engineering
entrance exams
that allow students to take up b.tech in electrical engineering as their
career option.
S.No.
Name of the exam
Level of the exam
Minimum % required
JEE MAINS
National level
Not specified
VITEEE
University level
60%
MET
50%
SRMJEEE
CG PET
State level
45%
ASSAM CEE
Uni-GAUGE-E
AMU EE
AP EAMCET
BITSAT
75%
OJEE
KIITEE
HPCET
KCET
UPCET
Eligibility criteria to pursue electrical engineering
Even though the basic criteria to pursue electrical engineering remains somewhat similar across
all institutions, there might be minor differences in specific requirements. These can be
pertaining to the minimum aggregate percentage, subjects opted for in 12th, cut off marks, basis
of calculation of merit for provisional lists, and any other university-specific requirement.
Let’s look at some of the common criteria that are a must for students to fulfill, in order to
secure admissions to colleges offering this program. Students must note that the eligibility to
pursue electrical engineering is the same as the eligibility to opt for any other specialisation
of engineering.
Students must have opted for physics, chemistry and maths, as their main subjects i.e. non
medical stream in their 12th standard. For many institutions, having studied the english
language in 12th is also a preferred parameter for students to be eligible to get admission
into various universities.
As of 2021, there have been new updates issued by the government stating that securing 75%
in class 12th is no longer a requirement for students to be able to appear for the JEE exam.
However, the minimum average percentage for the unreserved category is 45% and the reserved
category is 40%. It is important to note that this requirement may differ from university to
university. If we take into consideration the minimum percentage required to attempt BITSAT,
it is still 755 with a minimum of 60% in each paper.
Students should have passed their 12th from a recognised institution, either state board,
CBSE, or ICSE to sit in the exam.
Career in Electrical Engineering
Numerous opportunities are available for students aspiring to pursue electrical engineering. As
said above, the very core of all working systems is power, without which it is impossible to
sustain an efficiently running mechanism. This is to say that electrical engineering has
inadvertently become an indispensable unit of all businesses. Not just that, new technologies
that include fiber optics, media and image processing, cryptography and more are burgeoning and
there’s a wide array of work opportunities that these advancements have created. Electric power
infrastructure is another work area that electrical engineers have immense scope in.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
