Top 5 Engineering College in India
Source: https://liet.in/blog/top-5engineering-college-india.html

Top 5 Engineering College in India
Home
Top
5 Engineering College in
India
22, June
2022
Top 5 Engineering College in India - Course Fees, Admission Process and About the
College Short Description
Everyone needs a good private education for children, and everyone wants to graduate from
a government institution or college. When it comes to engineering, thousands of students
take the JeeMains and Jee Advanced tests, which are administered by the National Testing
Agency (NTA) to shortlist a thousand candidates for seats in IITs. The majority of
students skip a year for the same but still don't get selected, demonstrating how
competitive the ecosystem is. To stand firm in such an environment and aim higher is
what sets an extraordinary student apart. In this article, we have listed down
everything you need to know about studying at a tier1
engineering college
in India.
Indian Institute of Technology
About The College:
The
Indian
Institutes of Technology
(IITs) are public technical institutes
controlled by the Indian government and situated throughout the country. Bombay,
Delhi, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Madras, Guwahati, Roorkee, Hyderabad, Patna, Bhubaneshwar,
Ropar, Jodhpur, Gandhinagar, Indore, Mandi, Varanasi, Tirupati, Palakkad, Goa,
Jammu, Dharwad, and Bhilai are among the twenty-three Indian Institutes of
Technology (IITs). The Indian Institutes of Technology are technical learning
facilities that bring together some of the country's finest brains and develop them
to be the greatest in every way. What distinguishes IITs from other universities is
that they direct our attention on how we may apply what we've learned in the
classroom to real-world situations. The IITs provide undergraduate engineering and
technology programmes in a variety of fields. IITs offer degrees in B. Tech., B.
Arch., M.Sc., M. Design, M. Phil., M. Tech., MBA, and PhD.
Engineering Course Fee:
INR 5 to 10 lakhs total course fees
Admission Process:
Candidates must first participate and pass the
JEE Main entrance test to gain admission to an IIT after completing their 12th
grade. It is conducted by the National Testing Agency twice a year, in January and
April. The next stage after passing JEE Main is to take the JEE Advanced test. It is
held every year by one of the IITs in collaboration with the Joint Admission Board
(JAB). Candidates who pass the JEE Advanced test will be entitled to apply for
admission to the IITs. It should be emphasized that applicants must meet all of the
qualifying requirements set out by the relevant authorities.
National Institute Of Technology
After IITs, NITs are known for the high level of
education they provide, making admission to these universities a coveted problem for
brilliant individuals. In India, there are 30 active IITs. These colleges are
located throughout India, including New Delhi, Raipur, Rourkela, Goa, Imphal,
Shillong, Patna, Jaipur, Srinagar, Kurukshetra, Karaikal, Nagpur, and others. There
are plans to open a few additional NITs. The NITs are self-governing organizations
with their own curriculum. NIT graduates are well-recognized and are frequently
awarded high-paying jobs. In terms of student enrolment, the
Bachelor of Technology
(BTech) degree
is the most popular undergraduate degree at NITs.The BTech degree is a four-year,
eight-semester programme, whereas the Dual Degree and Integrated programmes are
five-year, ten-semester programmes. These institutes are among India's top-ranked
engineering colleges, with the lowest admission rates for engineering schools (about
1% to 2%).
INR 5 to 6 Lakhs Total Course Fee
Admission to any of the NITs follows a five-step
process. Students must first finish the JEE Main registration before they can fill
out the JEE Main application form. Students must take the JEE main test after
completing their registration. NIT admissions are handled through the Joint Seat
Allocation Authority's JEE Main counseling procedure (JoSAA). Candidates who have
been selected for the counseling procedure based on the merit list must register
online in order to participate. This is followed by course assignment and seat
locking. Students are then summoned to have their documents verified, confirming
their admission to the college.
Website -
https://nitdelhi.ac.in/
Birla Institute of Technology and Science
BITS Pilani, or Birla Institute of Technology
and Science, is an all-India higher ed institution. Individuals from all across
India who are accepted on the basis of merit receive the best quality technical
education at BITS. Its alumni work in every field of engineering, science, and
commerce across the world. The Institute is dedicated to creating, distributing, and
conserving knowledge, as well as collaborating with others to apply that knowledge
to the world's most pressing problems. BITS is committed to offering an education
that blends formal learning and the thrill of research with assistance and
encouragement.
INR 18 to 19 Lakhs Total Course Fee
Admission Process
: Pilani's Birla Institute of Technology and
Science is among India's leading institutes, offering a wide range of UG and PG
engineering and scientific programmes. Apart from Pilani, the institute maintains
campuses in Hyderabad, Goa, and Dubai. BITS Pilani admits students using the BITSAT
admissions test. There are also alternative options for entry, such as direct
admission for board toppers and acceptance via the SAT (only for NRI candidates).
After completing Class 12, an eligible candidate can apply for admittance to any of
BITS Pilani's first degree courses including bachelors in technology, provided he
achieves a minimum of 75 per cent overall in the 12th class as well as at least 60
per cent total in each of the subjects, including Physics, Chemistry, and
Mathematics, and also a viable BITSAT grade.
Website
https://www.bits-pilani.ac.in/
Netaji Subhash University of Technology
About The College
: Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology (NSUT) is
a seat of higher technical education in India that is run by the Government of the
National Capital Territory of Delhi and affiliated with the University of Delhi. The
institute has built a national and international recognition for technological
teaching and research competence throughout years. Since its foundation, the
institution has expanded dramatically in both size and breadth of operations. The
general academic atmosphere of the university is particularly conducive to achieving
excellence in education and research. It has continuously been regarded as one of
India's best engineering institutions, and it has received high marks in national
polls done by reputable professional and trade publications.
INR 8 to 9 Lakhs Total Course Fee
: Under the B. Tech programme, NSUT offers ten
specializations. To be considered, an applicant must have completed 10+2 with 75 per
cent or above in Physics, Mathematics, and Chemistry/Biotechnology, or be in the top
20% of their class. A good JEE Main rank is required of all applicants. Admission to
the Netaji Subhas University of Technology will be based on the JEE Main
score. Candidates must attend JAC counseling, which will be organized by NSUT,
DTU, and IGDTUW. Candidates will be chosen based on their JEE main rank and desired
institution, after which they must pay the fee and have their credentials confirmed
in order to complete their NSUT Delhi enrollment.
http://www.nsit.ac.in/
Vellore Institute of Technology
VIT was founded with the goal of offering
high-quality, international-standard higher education. It is always on the
lookout for and implementing new ways to improve the quality of higher
education. With students from all around the world, the campus offers a global
ambience. Teachers with a lot of experience and knowledge are greatly encouraged
to foster the students. VIT's multinational teaching and research standards are
a great accompaniment to the institution's unwavering commitment to excellence.
INR 7 to 9 Lakhs Total Course Fee
: VIT University holds VITEEE for admission to
engineering programmes on all of its campuses. VIT University currently entails
4 campuses in Bhopal, Vellore, Chennai, and also Amravati. VIT University is
well-known for its Vellore campus and recruitment, particularly in the CSE
department. Aspirants seeking admission to VIT must apply for VITEEE and obtain
a score of less than one lakh in order to be considered for VITEEE counseling
and management admission. Candidates with a VITEEE rank of less than one lakh
are only eligible for VITEEE counselling and are not guaranteed admission to
VIT. VITEEE candidates must have a PCM score of at least 55 per cent in their
12th grade.
https://vit.ac.in/
Conclusion
In this article, we captured the top premier engineering colleges in India, which can
shape the future of any graduate into a bright one. Top engineering schools are intended
to give you a comprehensive training environment. Learning in the same setting with the
same professors instills confidence, puts you in touch with influential industry
figures, and better equips you to become a top researcher in sciences and engineering.
The environment we study affects ultimate personality development, which is undeniably a
key component in landing the job of your dreams. So make yourself capable enough of
studying at these top engineering colleges and carve a name for yourself in your chosen
field!
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
