Computer science engineering subjects in first year
Source: https://liet.in/blog/computer-science-engineering-subjects.html

Computer science engineering subjects in first year
Home
Computer
science engineering subjects in first year
05, April
2022
What is Computer Science Engineering (CSE)?
The study of programming languages such as C, C++, Java, PHP, and object-oriented
programming is part of computer science engineering. Learning, analyzing, managing,
creating, and building software are all aspects of
computer science
engineering
. The key
to this procedure, however, is good algorithm implementation and coding. Alongside
theory knowledge in computer science programs, the student must comprehend and apply
algorithms, analyze software, and have coding skills. Students interested in this
subject will learn about topics including algorithms, operating systems, data
structures, databases, information retrieval, robots, and human-computer interaction.
Electrical engineering is also built on the foundation of computer science engineering.
A person who is interested in computers can benefit greatly from studying computer
science engineering.
Computer Science Curriculum
The
curriculum
of computer science engineering
, like that of any other area of
engineering, is divided into eight semesters over the course of four years. Starting
with the fundamentals, the curriculum moves to courses that are important in light of
contemporary technologies and innovations. This helps students to improve their
understanding of subjects at the basic level and assures sequential learning without
missing out on important core idea reinforcement. The unique aspect of the CSE
curriculum is that technological updates and modifications occur so often that it is
nearly impossible for a curriculum to become outdated.
This implies that students will only learn what is now relevant in the market and will
obtain knowledge of areas that will enhance their practical application in establishing
a strong career pathway. The curriculum in computer science engineering includes core
topics, electives, and structured lab sessions, and each subject has a specified number
of points of credit that learners must obtain. The curriculum explains all of the
courses and requirements that students must focus on each semester in order to be
promoted to the following one. It serves as a roadmap for the entire course.
Latest Trends in Computer Science Engineering
It should be noted that all of the developed countries that are evolving as superpowers
today are doing so due to advancements in their IT sectors. The only thing that those
countries have in common is their ability to adapt to changing conditions and catch up
to the rest of the world. This necessitates the presence of qualified and motivated
personnel who are constantly monitoring and working to develop these systems. The
following are some sectors that, if integrated, have the ability to substantially
advance the domain of CSE.
1. Artificial Intelligence (AI) —
Artificial intelligence is a method of
programming a computer, a computer-controlled robot, or software to think intellectually
in the same way as intelligent humans do. AI is achieved by understanding how the human
brain works, as well as how humans learn, decide and operate when attempting to solve a
problem, and then leveraging the results of this research to construct sophisticated
software systems.
2. The technology of Drones —
the term "drone" originates from the realm of science
fiction. Drones are employed for a variety of purposes, including cinematography,
military surveillance, and leisure pursuits. Drones are at the crossroads of aerospace,
robotic systems, and mechatronics. Drones can range from completely independent
military-grade drones to the typical remote-controlled drones you would see a child
flying in a park. Drones are typically called Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV).
3. Blockchain Data —
Blockchain is a method of storing data in such a manner that
it is nearly impossible to alter, hack, or defraud it. A blockchain is a digital log of
transactions which can be copied and distributed throughout the network of computer
systems.
4. Cloud Computing —
Cloud computing is the supply of various services, such as
data storage, platforms, databases, networking, and software, through the Internet.
Cloud storage allows you to save files to a distant repository and access them whenever
you need them.
5. Virtual Reality —
The use of computer knowledge to develop a modeled world is
known as virtual reality (VR). In contrast to typical user interfaces, virtual reality
holds the capacity to immerse the user in an otherworldly experience. Users are
engrossed and able to engage with 3D worlds rather than watching a display in front of
them.
6. Internet of Things —
The Internet of Things (IoT) is a network of
interconnected, internet-connected items that can gather and transmit data without the
need for human interaction across a wireless network.
7. Cybersecurity and Privacy —
The technique of protecting computers, websites,
mobile devices, communications devices, networks, and data against malicious intrusions
is known as cyber security. The integrity of data and security is protected by
information security, in storage as well as in transmission.
Computer Science Subjects In The First Semester
Sno.
Name Of The Subjects
Topics Covered Under It
Computational Mathematics
Set Theory, Combinatorics, Mathematical Logic, Linear Algebra
Basic Electronics
Physics Of Semiconductor Devices, P-N Junction, Bipolar Junction Transistors
(Bjts), Field Effect Transistors (Fets), Operational Amplifiers (Op-Amp),
Multivibrator Circuits, Power Supply, Electronic Measuring Equipment,
Data Structure
Data Structure And Algorithm Preliminaries, Arrays, Linked List, Stack,
Queue, Graph Algorithms, Tree, Binary Search Tree
Communication Skill
Basic Skills Development Using English As A Medium, Speaking, Grammar, Modes
Of Address, Reading And Writing
Systems Programming
System Hardware And Software Interaction, Language Issues, Translation Of
Low-Level Languages And High-Level Languages, Assemblers, Tools,
Microprocessors, Linking And Loading, Compilers
Digital Logic
Switching Algebra And Its Applications, Synthesis And Analysis Of Logic
Circuits, Registers And Processor Level Design Of Digital Systems, Synthesis
Of Sequential Machines, Static And Dynamic Memories, PLA And PROM
Computer Science Subjects In the Second Semester
Probability And Statistics, Transforms, Numerical Methods
Computer Organization
CpuOrganisation, Memory Organisation, System Organisation, Program I/O,
DMA And Interrupt I/O Programming
Data Communications
Introduction To Communication Systems, Data, Signal And Transmission,
Goals Of Computer Network, Encoding, Bandwidth Utilization Techniques,
Transmission Media, Switched Networks, Information Theory
Operating Systems
Introduction, Memory Management, Virtual Memory, File And Directories,
Device Drivers, Disk Management Security And Protection Mechanism
Microprocessor & Microcontroller
Introduction To Microprocessors And Microcomputers, Memory Organization,
Machine Cycles, Timer0 & Timer1, Microcontroller 8051
Formal Language & Automata Theory
Introduction And Review Of Finite State Machines, Finite Automata (FA) &
Regular Expression, Regular Set, Grammar, Pushdown Automata, Turing
Machine, Undecidability
List of Common Electives under Computer Science Engineering
Artificial Intelligence
Embedded Systems
Computer Graphics
Probability Theory For Computer Engineers
Digital Image Processing
Machine Learning
Network Programming
Software Project Management
Data Mining
Human-Computer Interaction
Parallel And Distributed Algorithms
Information And Network Security
Modeling And Simulation
Quantum Computing
Cloud Computing
Multi Multimedia
Cognitive Systems
Social Network Analysis
Intrusion Detection Systems
Wireless Networks
Conclusion
In some universities,
the subjects taught in the first year of computer
science and engineering
programmes are the same as subjects taught
under any
other realm of engineering. This is done to acquaint students with
engineering study as a whole, and allow them to know a little about all
branches of engineering, thus giving them a chance to explore their
interests. In this article, we have listed down the common subjects taught
to CSE majors in their first year, as well as the main topics that are
covered under those subjects. We have also covered in detail the common
electives about CSE and brief introductions to the latest trends in the
industry.
© 2023 lloyd INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY. All Rights Reserved
