Campus Facilities | Lloyd Institute of Engineering and Technology
Source: https://liet.in/campus-facilities

Skip to content
LIET Connect
E-Brochure
WhatsApp
admissions@liet.in
+91 9821582662
Apply Now 2026-27
Online Payment
Click here
Student Facilities
Comfort, Convenience, and Care on Campus
Accomodation
Lloyd’s Hostel
offers a safe, comfortable, and homely living experience in the serene surroundings of Greater Noida. With separate hostels for boys and girls, round-the-clock security, CCTV surveillance, and dedicated wardens, students enjoy a secure and well-managed residential environment.
The hostel provides spacious, well-furnished rooms with single and shared options, including air-conditioned facilities. Nutritious meals, purified drinking water, and sports and recreational areas ensure a healthy and balanced lifestyle.
Combining modern amenities, safety, and comfort, Lloyd’s Hostel truly feels like a home away from home.
The Campus Experience
Transportation
Valuing our student’s convenience and comfort, Lloyd has three connected routes to Delhi NCR adjoining multiple metro stations for ease of commute. A non-refundable transport fee for 7 months is to be submitted in advance to avoid any last-minute hassle or error margins. This gives the students the liberty to choose their best suited route and manage the distance of pickup from the college conveniently.
Campus Security
To ensure the utmost safety and security of students, Lloyd has installed 24×7 CCTV surveillance across the campus, both indoors and outdoors. The system is closely monitored by senior authorities to maintain discipline and safeguard student interests at all times. Lloyd also follows a strict anti-ragging policy, ensuring a safe, respectful, and student-friendly campus environment for all.
Medical Support
The campus offers 24/7 medical and first aid services for student safety. In case of incidents, quick treatment and care are provided through Lloyd’s partnership with Yatharth Super Specialty Hospital, Greater Noida. The on-campus medical room is equipped with basic health facilities, a bed, and regular doctor visits. A wheelchair and ambulance are also available for emergencie
Plot No. 3, Knowledge Park II, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201306
Follow Us:
Icon-facebook
X-twitter
Icon-linkedin
Icon-instagram-1
Youtube
Admissions
Admissions 2026-27
Apply Now
Why LIET?
Scholarship & Aid
FAQs
Fee Deposits
Download Brochure
Eligibility criteria
How to Apply?
Campus Facilities
Outreach
Student Clubs
Contact Us
List of Admission for Vacant Seats
Important Link
LIET ERP
LIET CRM
Special Counselling (Spot)Round
Careers@LIET
Student Grievance Form
Teaching & Non-Teaching Grievance Form
Anti-Ragging
Women Grievance Cell
IQAC
NBA
Institute Video
24/7 Women Helpline Number -
8130 - 0737-38
For Mental Health Support -
9220228653
Resources
NIRF
DigiLocker
Blog
Journals
CUET (UG) 2026
Swayam
NPTEL
SIDH (Skill India Digital Hub)
INFLIBNET
MOOCs
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
@2025 LLOYD INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY.
All rights reserved
Make an Enquiry
