Civil Engineering | LIET, Delhi NCR
Source: https://liet.in/civil-engineering

Civil Engineering
A hub of knowledge and innovation, empowering confident, skilled, and future-ready learners.
One of the primary engineering departments of the Lloyd Institute of Engineering and Technology (LIET) Greater Noida, the Department of Civil Engineering offers a 4 years B.Tech. Program. B.Tech. course is approved by AICTE, Ministry of HRD, New Delhi (India) and affiliated to Dr.A.P.J.Abdul Kalam Technical University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. The Civil Engineering department was established in 2009 and since its inception the department has been continuously building a strong theoretical and practical foundation of Civil Engineering to the students. Students are provided here with deep knowledge in the field of structural engineering, geotechnical engineering, transportation and bridge engineering, water resources and hydraulics, surveying, structural design and drawing, environmental engineering, construction technology and management.
The Institute promotes bridging the gap between academia and industry and ensures that its students are extensively trained through active industrial collaborations The department has an innovative approach to education that integrates professional industry experience into the academic curriculum. We provide a program that balances classroom theory with periods of practical, hands-on experience prior to graduation.
Engineering Knowledge
Problem Analysis
Design/Development of solutions
Conduct Investigations of complex problems
Environment and Sustainability
Individual and Team work
Communication & Ethics
Project Management and Finance
Vision
To produce technocrats of universal standards in civil engineering who are academically and professionally strong with the capability to innovate for modern requirements, serve society and face global challenges.
Mission
To educate the students of civil engineering through innovative technologies and to cultivate a creative and research environment among the students.
To create professionals who can design and develop affordable infrastructure for rural and urban growth
To make the students conscious of the environment and trained in developing sustainable infrastructure and renewable sources of energy.
Goals
LIET is one of India’s leading engineering colleges, known for industry-ready education and strong career outcomes.
Emphasis on innovative practices
Integration of creative methods
Incorporation of emerging technologies
Motivating students through diverse activities
Apply Now
Placement
Achieve Your Career Goals with Our 100% Placement Guarantee. Secure the Highest Salary Packages in the Field.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
To establish a strong base in the fundamental principles of mathematics, science, and engineering for the learner’s comprehensive preparation.
To equip the learner with the proficiency to adeptly employ contemporary tools for the purpose of addressing practical challenges in real-world scenarios.
To inspire and drive learners towards mastering the skill of self-directed learning.
To cultivate ethical professionals with strong leadership skills and a commitment to social responsibility.
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
Apply the fundamentals of mathematics, science and engineering knowledge to understand, analyze and develop computer based solutions for engineering applications.
Apply appropriate techniques and modern engineering hardware and software tools to design cost effective computation tools to solve contemporary challenges for social applications.
To use domain expertise for research, higher studies, entrepreneurship, and innovative solutions, guided by ethical leadership and teamwork.
Empowering Minds, Changing Lives, Shaping Futures
Syllabus
Civil Engineering Labs
Environmental Lab
The Environmental Engineering Lab assesses water, air, and soil quality, develops wastewater treatment solutions, and supports pollution control and waste management through sustainable, data-driven research.
It promotes environmental awareness and innovation to help build a cleaner, healthier, and more sustainable future.
Geotechnical Lab
The Geotechnical Engineering Lab evaluates soil properties through tests on compaction, permeability, shear strength, and bearing capacity, supporting safe and efficient design of foundations and other infrastructure while minimizing geotechnical risks.
Building material testing Lab
The Materials Testing Lab evaluates mechanical, chemical, and physical properties through tests such as tensile, hardness, impact, and corrosion, ensuring material quality, compliance with industry standards, and reliable engineering applications.
“From ground to skyline, we shape tomorrow.”
