Computer Science Engineering (CSE) | LIET, Delhi NCR
Source: https://liet.in/computer-science-engineering

Skip to content
LIET Connect
E-Brochure
WhatsApp
admissions@liet.in
+91 9821582662
Apply Now 2026-27
Online Payment
Click here
Computer Science & Engineering
College is where you are shaped according to the person you want to be in the future.
The Computer Science Engineering department strives to equip students with a strong foundation in technology, innovation, and problem-solving, preparing them for successful careers in the ever-evolving tech industry.
LIET is committed to addressing the industry’s need for digitally skilled engineers by upgrading its curriculum through academic collaborations with major IT leaders. The department offers a full-time B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering is Approved by AKTU and AICTE.
In response to emerging digital technologies like Big Data, AI, Cloud, and IoT, Lloyd is preparing students for high-demand roles in areas like mobile app development and data science. As digital technologies are expected to significantly boost India’s economy by 2025, Lloyd has infused its CSE curriculum with relevant tech skills, including Full Stack Programming, Big Data, Machine Learning, AI, and IoT. The department employs project-based learning, a flipped-classroom model, and a mastery learning platform, fostering collaboration and personalized learning. Additionally, it offers specialized certification courses through partnerships with MICROSOFT, IBM, ORACLE, AMAZON WEB SERVICES: “
Highly Qualified, Research-Oriented Faculty
dedicated to academic excellence and innovation.
Exceptional Placement Records
with graduates securing roles in top global MNCs like IBM, Microsoft, Facebook, SAP, Oracle, etc.
Industry-Focused Learning
through specialized Technology Groups, aligning with current market trends.
National & International Engineering Activities
offering exposure to global engineering advancements.
Department Vision
Transforming students through skill-based learning with ethical values, producing competent Computer Science Professionals, to cater technological and industrial challenges of global need.
Department Mission
DM1:
Provide support and facilities to create and disseminate knowledge in the area of
Computer Science and Engineering.
DM2:
Provide practical learning and exposure on advanced tools and technologies.
DM3:
To instill global level competence and skills with innovative thoughts maintaining ethical values and professionalism.
Things To Know First
LIET is one of India’s leading engineering colleges, known for industry-ready education and strong career outcomes.
Scholarship Up To 100%
Placement-Ready Culture from Day One
Learn, Build, Innovate with AI/ML
Learn from experienced faculty and industry experts
Apply Now
Placement
Achieve Your Career Goals with Our 100% Placement Guarantee. Secure the Highest Salary Packages in the Field.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
The Program Educational Objectives of the
Computer Science & Engineering department
are:
Graduates will work in the area of application software development, testing and cyber security domain.
Graduates will become successful professional with managerial quality in different IT industry.
Graduates will exhibit professional understanding and ethics, will able to work as a team to continue effectively for the growth of industry and society.
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs) of CSE Department
Problem solving by applying computational concepts and design solutions using suitable data structures and algorithmic techniques.
Apply the advanced Coding techniques and framework in product development process.
Exposure to advanced cyber security tools and practices to secure critical infrastructure.
Empowering Minds, Changing Lives, Shaping Futures
Syllabus
Computer Science & Engineering Labs
Data Analytics Lab
The lab equips students with statistical, mathematical, machine learning, and data visualization skills to model and analyze real-world problems. It features high-performance systems with tools such as Python, R, Jupyter, TensorFlow, and Keras for effective knowledge discovery.
Database Management System and Object Oriented Lab
The Lab is dedicated for Oriented Languages and Database related practicals and projects. High configuration computer systems with relevant softwares like Java, C++, along with frontend and backend softwares like Net Beans, Visual studio, MySQL are installed to design, develop and implement Database related projects and assignments.
Web Technology and Multimedia Lab
The Lab is dedicated to gain hands experience on web technologies. The high configuration machines are equipped with relevant software tools like Eclipse, visual studio, PHP, Web server, XAMPP, WAMP, LAMP, and Net Beans to name a few.
“ Technology doesn’t just evolve the world—it transforms everything.”
Computer Science & Engineering Total Intake - 180
CSE Faculty List
Sr. No.
Name of the faculty
Present designation
Dr. Gaurav Jindal
Professor
Dr. Harshita Tuli
Associate Professor
Dr. Neeraj Chauhan
Dr. Vandana Kumari
Gaurav Bhatia
Assistant Professor
Neetu Sharma
Karabi Kalita Das
Adarsh Kumar
Aishwary Shukla
Alok Kumar
Ashi Gautam
Bhavna Sharma
Brijesh Kumar Gupta
Deepika Arora
Gaurisha Sisodia
Himanshu Tiwari
Jagat Kumar
Neelam Kumari
Nitin Sondhi
Ravi Kumar
Saroj Kumar Suman
Shubham Kumar Suman
Vikash Kumar
Ayush Rai
Vibhav Ranjan
Saksham Singhal
Rishi Raj Singh
Nitin Verma
Devendra Vikram
Priya Chaudhary
Anjani Singh
Professor of Practice
Mritunjay Yadav
View More
Faculty Publications
Faculty Publication details of CSE
Sr.No.
Items
2024-25
2023-24
2022-23
No. of peer reviewed journal papers published
No. of peer reviewed conference papers published
127
224
No. of books/book chapters published
Plot No. 3, Knowledge Park II, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201306
Follow Us:
Icon-facebook
X-twitter
Icon-linkedin
Icon-instagram-1
Youtube
Admissions
Admissions 2026-27
Why LIET?
Scholarship & Aid
FAQs
Fee Deposits
Download Brochure
Eligibility criteria
How to Apply?
Campus Facilities
Outreach
Student Clubs
Contact Us
List of Admission for Vacant Seats
Important Link
LIET ERP
LIET CRM
Special Counselling (Spot)Round
Careers@LIET
Student Grievance Form
Teaching & Non-Teaching Grievance Form
Anti-Ragging
Women Grievance Cell
IQAC
NBA
Institute Video
24/7 Women Helpline Number -
8130 - 0737-38
For Mental Health Support -
9220228653
Resources
NIRF
DigiLocker
Blog
Journals
CUET (UG) 2026
Swayam
NPTEL
SIDH (Skill India Digital Hub)
INFLIBNET
MOOCs
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
@2025 LLOYD INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY.
All rights reserved
Make an Enquiry
