conferences - Lloyd Engineering College
Source: https://liet.in/conferences

Skip to content
LIET Connect
E-Brochure
WhatsApp
admissions@liet.in
+91 9821582662
Apply Now 2026-27
Online Payment
Click here
LIET
Conferences
A hub of knowledge and innovation, empowering confident, skilled, and future-ready learners.
Previous Conference
Upcoming Conference
International Conference on Sustainable Computing and Integrated Communication in Changing Landscape of Artificial Intelligence
LIET, Lloyd Institute of Engineering & Technology has become a place where dreams are indeed transformed into reality. The institute is affiliated to Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technical University (Formerly UPTU) and recognized by the A. I. C. T. E. (Min of HRD), New Delhi, and the U.P. Govt. LIET has been constantly engaged in moulding the lives of future engineers with the employment of innovative approaches that are job-oriented only.
LIET keeping the progressive approach aims at imparting the latest knowledge, pertinent to the mentioned domains, having the updated curriculum, research, and practice to use. Under banner of LIET there are different courses which make up different ways of bettering life all over the world.
LIET with its great teaching staff and hard-working faculty members keeps the students aligned with a great working standard which helps them throughout from education to career. The college keeps abreast of the latest teaching pedagogy keeping up the current engineering trends & innovations ensuring the students get the best of it. LIET is frontier in placements with an exclusive 360-degree training program. These enable the worthy students of LIET to get jobs in notable companies like Tech Mahindra, IBM, TCS, Wipro, Infosys, and HCL etc.
Objective
The 2
International Conference on Sustainable Computing and Integrated Communication in Changing Landscape of AI (ICSCAI 2025), is being organized with the key objective to bring collected research scholars, workingresearchers, and practitioners from industryaround the world, and also from widespreadrange of engineering and managers, onto a collectivepodium for the following theme:
To make stronger link between industry and academia and enhance collaborative and meaningful research on current issues.
To inform participating delegates about emerging technologies through presentations and panel discussions.
Provide networking opportunities to delegates on this platform.
Expert talks from world-renowned domain experts to get an overview of progress on domains through interactive technical sessions.
International Conference on Sustainability in Digital Transformation Era
Lloyd Institute of Engineering & Technology is elated to announce International Conference on Sustainability in Digital Transformation Era: Driving Innovation and Growth (SIDTE-2023), to be held from 16th to 17th September 2023.
The SIDTE-2023 conference provides a unique platform for researchers and practitioners to present and discuss their latest findings, insights, and experiences in the field of sustainability and digital transformation.
International Conference
A successful two-day international conference was organized at Lloyd Institute of Engineering and Technology, Greater Noida. The conference commenced on September 16th, with former IRS officer, educator, and political doctor Ashirwad Acharya as the chief guest, who spoke about the societal changes happening through technology.
The program also had special guests, including Professor Paula(Czestochowa University of Technology, Poland), Professor Ilona (Czestochowa University of Technology, Poland), Professor Ekahiko (Yahoo Co. Japan), Professor Ramkumar (IIT Kanpur), Professor Satish Kumar Singh (IIIT Allahabad), Professor S.N. Singh (Director, IIIT, Gwalior) Prof. Amit Kumar Pandey, (Amity University, Noida) and Mr. Surya Narayan Mishra (Director, Indian Institute if Company Secretary) shared insights about social entrepreneurship, highlighting the importance of combining social entrepreneurship with environmental preservation to achieve sustainable development.
Celebrating Success at ICSCAI-2024!
We are thrilled to announce the outstanding success of the International Conference (ICSCAI-2024), held from July 4th to 6th, 2024, in collaboration with IEEE UP Section. This event marked a significant milestone in the fields of computing and AI, bringing together brilliant minds from around the globe.
Special thanks are also due to Dr. Arun Kumar Singh and Dr. Rafiq,
Prof. Vijay Kumar Dwivedi
, Dr. Amit Pandey, Dr. P. K Sinha, Dr. Varun Kakar for their invaluable contributions towards making ICSCAI-2024 a resounding success. Their dedication and expertise were instrumental in shaping this remarkable event.
2nd International Conference on Sustainability in Digital Transformation Era
We are excited to announce the Inaugural Session of 2nd International Conference on Sustainability in Digital Transformation Era: Driving Innovation & Growth, SIDTE-2024 at
Lloyd Institute of Engineering and Technology
on 13th-14th September 2024. The conference will bring together researchers, scholars, and professionals from across the globe
We are honored to have Ms. Stuti Narain Kacker, IAS Officer, 1978 Batch as our Chief Guest and Dr. Pramod Kumar Sinha, Central PSE, Govt. of India as our Guest of Honor at SIDTE-2024.Their insights and expertise will set the tone for an inspiring and impactful event.
Plot No. 3, Knowledge Park II, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201306
Follow Us:
Icon-facebook
X-twitter
Icon-linkedin
Icon-instagram-1
Youtube
Admissions
Admissions 2026-27
Apply Now
Why LIET?
Scholarship & Aid
FAQs
Fee Deposits
Download Brochure
Eligibility criteria
How to Apply?
Campus Facilities
Outreach
Student Clubs
Contact Us
List of Admission for Vacant Seats
Important Link
LIET ERP
LIET CRM
Special Counselling (Spot)Round
Careers@LIET
Student Grievance Form
Teaching & Non-Teaching Grievance Form
Anti-Ragging
Women Grievance Cell
IQAC
NBA
Institute Video
24/7 Women Helpline Number -
8130 - 0737-38
For Mental Health Support -
9220228653
Resources
NIRF
DigiLocker
Blog
Journals
CUET (UG) 2026
Swayam
NPTEL
SIDH (Skill India Digital Hub)
INFLIBNET
MOOCs
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
@2025 LLOYD INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY.
All rights reserved
Make an Enquiry
