ECE with VLSI Design | LIET, Delhi NCR
Source: https://liet.in/ece-vlsi

Electronics & Communication Engineering (VLSI)
College is where you are shaped according to the person you want to be in the future.
The Electronics and Communication Engineering department sparks innovation by blending the Internet of Things, embedded systems, cutting-edge communication technologies, and signal processing, shaping students to lead in the dynamic world of modern technology.
The B.Tech. in Electronics Engineering, (VLSI design and technology) undergraduate program design to equip students with a comprehensive understanding of microelectronic devices, VLSI circuits, and systems. This expertise is essential for the electronics chip design and VLSI Domain Industries. The curriculum places a strong emphasis on the fundamentals of designing and developing hardware and software for VLSI applications. The program enriches the students with fundamental knowledge of electronics engineering with an additional focus on VLSI system design, verification, device modeling, RF circuit design, chip packaging, VLSI signal processing, testing and diagnosis of VLSI circuits, SOC-based design and verification along with the practical knowledge of top EDA (Electronic Design & Automation) tools. Applications for the evergreen VLSI domain can be found in the fields of signal processing, image processing, networks and communication applications, space applications, IC design, Quantum computing and automation industry. The curriculum are designed on the needs of the industries and is based on feedback from alumni and the industry.
New program launched in compliance with India Semiconductor Mission (ISM)
Highest paying, in-demand profession in the semiconductor chip Industries.
The program includes hands-on experience on EDA (Software) tools.
Association of VLSI Industry/Industries with this program
Flexible Scheme as per National Education Policy 2020
Vision
“To excel in Electronics Engineering (VLSI Design and Technology) through cutting-edge research, industry engagement, and multidisciplinary teaching and develop globally and ethical technocrats.”
Mission
To prepare students to become skilled and innovative electronics engineers through quality education and training, while fostering strong partnerships with semiconductor industries by conducting pioneering research.
To establish an atmosphere that encourages entrepreneurship and invention so that students can resolve the real world.
To create adaptable, socially conscious, ethnically motivated electronics engineers who are passionate about lifelong learning.
Things To Know First
LIET is one of India’s leading engineering colleges, known for industry-ready education and strong career outcomes.
Scholarship Up To 100%
Placement-Ready Culture from Day One
Learn, Build, Innovate with AI/ML
Learn from experienced faculty and industry experts
Apply Now
Placement
Achieve Your Career Goals with Our 100% Placement Guarantee. Secure the Highest Salary Packages in the Field.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
To cater the need of domain specific industries through In-depth Knowledge.
To adapt Multidisciplinary technologies and leadership qualities for better Employability, higher Education and Entrepreneurship in Communication and VLSI domain.
To sustain with ever changing global technologies through the Life Long Learning.
To be socially responsible professional with ethics, eager to develop solution for the real Life problem.
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
Acquire competency in area of VLSI, Integrated Circuits & electronic systems to development focusing on application.
Integrate multiple sub system and environment-conscious technologies to develop system on Chip for sustain human life.
Empowering Minds, Changing Lives, Shaping Futures
Syllabus
Electronics & Communication Engineering (VLSI) Labs
Electronic Device, Analog Circuit Lab
Electronics Project Lab
Electronics Measurement Lab
Communication 1 & 2 ofc Lab
Digital Electronics Lab
Electronics Lab. 1
Microprocessor Lab
Cad for VLSI
“Where ideas meet innovation, the future begins.”
Applying to Edupreme University
Detail About How To Apply
Vulputate massa hendrerit fusce odio curabitur. Purus aenean justo commodo ad sem fringilla. Proin ligula fames nam molestie lacus nulla curae donec tincidunt urna. Arcu elit consectetur auctor libero consectetuer mattis nostra vitae duis.
Magna consequat neque justo sit fusce commodo potenti cras felis sapien taciti. Consectetur netus dictumst proin mollis velit blandit lobortis sapien malesuada. Mauris volutpat commodo a donec congue. Fames porta habitant fusce nisl est. Quam nulla proin mus lacus aptent eros auctor. Lectus lacus faucibus proin eget mus congue pharetra.
Discover More
The path you want to go for your future career is decided here
Porta dictum placerat a per arcu fusce nulla vulputate. Mus ad nostra pede eu praesent elit accumsan ante. Phasellus tortor vivamus pulvinar euismod ornare cras amet pellentesque nullam montes.
