Electronics and Electrical Engineering | LIET, Delhi NCR
Source: https://liet.in/electrical-and-electronic-engg

Electronics and Electrical Engineering
College is where you are shaped according to the person you want to be in the future.
To ensure education and technology self-sufficiency for quality teaching-learning process, research, outreach services to meet the needs and expectations of our stakeholders.
The Electronics and Communication Engineering department at LIET, Greater Noida, provides a comprehensive B.Tech program focused on core subjects and practical skills, covering specializations like VLSI and embedded systems. With experienced faculty and well-equipped labs, the department fosters a collaborative research and teaching environment, emphasizing both technical and professional development through workshops and seminars.
As per the institute Co-Op program, the department is also providing specialized training in the areas of microelectronics, telecommunication to VLSI Design and fabrication that develop expertise and knowledge of the students to compete in the respective fields of industries and academia.
Highly Qualified, Research-Oriented Faculty
dedicated to academic excellence and innovation.
Industry Professional
with leading companies to enhance practical learning experiences.
Exceptional Placement Records
with graduates securing roles in top global MNCs like IBM, Microsoft, Facebook, SAP, Oracle, etc.
Strong Alumni Network & Industry Interaction,
providing valuable career insights and opportunities.
Vision
“To be a pioneer in the field of science and technology by providing quality education, and developing technical and professional skills of the students to accomplish societal needs.”
Mission
To give exposure to the students about recent technologies developed in their respective areas and some inter-disciplinary fields across the globe through in-house training, company visits, and creating projects with advanced technologies.
To impart an exhaustive knowledge of the core subjects to the students in their respective fields of science and engineering.
To build up the ethical and professional skills of the students with the inspiration of innovative ideas, teamwork, and leadership potential.
Things To Know First
LIET is one of India’s leading engineering colleges, known for industry-ready education and strong career outcomes.
Scholarship Up To 100%
Placement-Ready Culture from Day One
Learn, Build, Innovate with AI/ML
Learn from experienced faculty and industry experts
Apply Now
Placement
Achieve Your Career Goals with Our 100% Placement Guarantee. Secure the Highest Salary Packages in the Field.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
A reputation as a professional with leadership qualities and excellent communication skills.
Apply, analyze and plan the accrued knowledge in mathematics and basic sciences in solving complex electronics and communication engineering problems.
Design and test various analog and digital electronics systems for given specifications.
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
Apply the fundamental concepts of Electronics and communication engineering in various fields like signal processing, Communication engineering, Embedded Systems and VLSI.
Select and apply engineering hardware and software tools to solve complex Electronics and Communication Engineering problems.
Analyze and Design various elements of communication systems and signal processing.
Empowering Minds, Changing Lives, Shaping Futures
Syllabus
Electronics and Electrical Engineering Labs
Electronic Device, Analog Circuit Lab
Electronics Project Lab
Electronics Measurement Lab
Communication 1 & 2 ofc Lab
Digital Electronics Lab
Electronics Lab. 1
Microprocessor Lab
Cad for VLSI
“Electronics and Electrical shape the systems that run our world.”
