Faculty Development Programmes - Lloyd Engineering College
Source: https://liet.in/faculty-development-programmes

Skip to content
LIET Connect
E-Brochure
WhatsApp
admissions@liet.in
+91 9821582662
Apply Now 2026-27
Online Payment
Click here
LIET
Faculty Development Programmes
A hub of knowledge and innovation, empowering confident, skilled, and future-ready learners.
FDP - Digital Reimagination
The Department of Computer Science & Engineering is organizing a
Faculty Development Programme (FDP)
Digital Reimagination
aimed at equipping educators with cutting-edge knowledge and practical skills in digital defense.
The keynote speaker will be
Mr. Sushil Khosla, Head Operations management, CSR, Tata Consultancy Services
. He is an esteemed expert having vast industry experience in securing digital ecosystems, threat intelligence, and enterprise risk management.
We are honored to welcome our
Guest of Honor Mr. Rajit Sikka, Regional Head, Academic Alliances India North, TCS
. He is a distinguished leader committed to bridging the gap between academia and industry and brings deep insight into the future of tech education and workforce readiness.
Introduction to Mendeley Reference Manager
The department of mechanical engineering is organizing a workshop on “
” on
April 07, 2025
Mendeley is an important tool for reference managemen
t. Students should learn to use Mendeley for several important reasons such as organizing references and efficient citation.
LIET students can join the Workshop to learn how to efficiently manage references and generate citations using Mendeley!
Cybersecurity Workshop
We are thrilled to announce the successful commencement of a
2-Day Cybersecurity Workshop at Lloyd Institute of Engineering & Technology
, aimed at preparing students to face real-world cyber threats with confidence and competence.
With years of expertise in handling global-scale cyber operations,
Mr. Pathak
is sharing valuable industry insights into
Security Operations Centers (SOC), Threat Detection, Incident Response
, and
Cyber Defense Strategies
Students are gaining hands-on exposure to:
Real-time attack simulations
SOC frameworks and tools
Career pathways in cybersecurity
Building a hacker mindset for ethical defense
This initiative is a part of our strong commitment to bridging the industry-academia gap and making our students
placement-ready for cybersecurity
and
tech-driven roles
FDP in collaboration with Tata Consultancy Service
Lloyd Institute of Engineering & Technology is organizing a Faculty Development Programme in collaboration with Tata Consultancy Services(TCS).
Tata Consultancy Services is a global leader in IT services, consulting & business solutions with a large network of innovation & delivery centers.
Plot No. 3, Knowledge Park II, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201306
Follow Us:
Icon-facebook
X-twitter
Icon-linkedin
Icon-instagram-1
Youtube
Admissions
Admissions 2026-27
Apply Now
Why LIET?
Scholarship & Aid
FAQs
Fee Deposits
Download Brochure
Eligibility criteria
How to Apply?
Campus Facilities
Outreach
Student Clubs
Contact Us
List of Admission for Vacant Seats
Important Link
LIET ERP
LIET CRM
Special Counselling (Spot)Round
Careers@LIET
Student Grievance Form
Teaching & Non-Teaching Grievance Form
Anti-Ragging
Women Grievance Cell
IQAC
NBA
Institute Video
24/7 Women Helpline Number -
8130 - 0737-38
For Mental Health Support -
9220228653
Resources
NIRF
DigiLocker
Blog
Journals
CUET (UG) 2026
Swayam
NPTEL
SIDH (Skill India Digital Hub)
INFLIBNET
MOOCs
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
@2025 LLOYD INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY.
All rights reserved
Make an Enquiry
