Central Library | Lloyd Institute of Engineering & Technology
Source: https://liet.in/library

Skip to content
LIET Connect
E-Brochure
WhatsApp
admissions@liet.in
+91 9821582662
Apply Now 2026-27
Online Payment
Click here
LIET
Library
A hub of knowledge and innovation, empowering confident, skilled, and future-ready learners.
Welcome to the Central Library
LIET Central library was established in 2002 LIET Central library has wide collection of books, periodicals and E-resources etc. it has more than 33000 books on Engineering, MCA and Management etc. with more than 3300 Titles and subscribed more than 54 print periodicals.
It has also subscribed to e-resources (e-books, e-Journals, articles etc.) through Myloft Nalanda AKTU E-consortium.
LIET Central Library is fully air-conditioned with Wi-Fi enabled and has separate E-learning section with internet connectivity for accessing e-resources & other sites of user’s interest. It is also providing separate Competitive section. It is fully automated with KOHA software. LIET central library has Book-Bank facility, under which books are issued to the students for entire semester through
Book-Bank.
The library system is very user friendly with sufficient resources to meet the requirements of the users. Addition of resources as per the requirements and norms is a regular feature. Sufficient number of qualified staff are employed to manage the activities of the library. Admission to the Central Library is through Library cum Identity Card, which is scanned at the entrance, to keep record of the users.
Vision & Mission of the Department
“To emerge as an Institute of academic excellence by empowering young minds through problem solving skills, knowledge & ethical values and transforming them into professionals of global competence. ”
Mission 1:
To equip the students with state of the art technological advancement and skills.
Mission 2:
To foster effective teaching and learning through continuous industry engagement and professionalism.
Mission 3:
To focus on holistic development of students through enhanced learning along with moral and ethical value system.
Notification Library Notice
Our Collection
LIET Central Library has developed a huge collection of books and Periodicals in Engineering and Technology, Humanities, Management and Pharmacy.
The library collection comprising of books, journals and project reports i.e. collection of the library as follows.
Library Infrastructure
672sqm Air-Conditioned with Wi-Fi.
More than 152 Seating Capacity.
Digital Library with 10 access point.
Central Library Online Resources
Library Timings
Library Timings in normal working days:
Monday to Friday & Working Saturday: 09:00 AM to 05:00 PM
Books Issue/Return Timing:
Monday to Friday & working Saturday: 10:00 AM to 04.00 PM
Self-Study Hall (Reading) Timing:
All working days: 09:00 AM to 07.00PM
Digital Library Timing:
Monday to Friday & Working Saturday: 09:00 AM to 07:00 PM
Reprographic Service:
09:00 AM to 07:00 PM
Central Library Rules
All library users must sign in/out register available with the attendant at the library entrance.
Bring your identity card while you visit to library. Without I-card you may be asked to leave the library.
Members are expected to maintain silence and should not disturb others. Smoking/Eating/ talking /chewing are strictly prohibited in the library.
Personal belongings are not allowed in the library. However, they may carry loose papers and a note book.
The Library follows an Open-Access System. Books and other material taken from the library stacks should be left by readers, on the table for the library staﬀ to arrange the books.
Loss of identity card to be reported immediately in writing to the concern authority.
No one is allowed to take his personal/issued books inside the library.
Change in department, status, address etc. to be informed and the tickets corrected.
Please handle documents with great care as they are costly and valuable, particularly loose issue of periodicals.
All books and if required, the contents of all briefcases, etc. which are being taken out of the library, are subject to inspection at the check point. Please co-operate.
The members are expected to maintain the decorum of the library, any violation to be brought to the notice of the Dean (Academic).
On violation of library Rules or misconduct of any reader, the library authorities can withdraw the library facilities to that particular individual.
LIET Central Library Features
The Central Library of the college has an invaluable collection of text and reference books, journals and e-journals and a variety of multi-media resources. At present, the total number of titles and volumes on Science & Technology, Humanities, MCA and Management are around 3300 thousand and 33000 thousand respectively. The library subscribes to over 22051 E-resources/International Journals and National Journals. The digital library has a diverse collection of multimedia resources. In addition, the library maintains seminar reports, project reports and thesis of students. A separate section with books on personality development and competitive examination preparation are available. All these resources are constantly getting added and increased. The Central Library subscribes to more than 5 magazines and 6 newspapers.
The LIET Central Library portal has been designed to provide you quick access to all resources for your learning needs. The various sections of the portal have been elaborated for better navigation.
Library Automation:
The Library uses KOHA software package, which is an Open Source Library Management System, to support all in-house operations of the library with barcode technology and circulation of Information through E-mail. It consists of modules on acquisition, cataloguing, circulation, reports and Web based Online Public Access Catalogue (Web OPAC). The database of books available in the Library is updated on day-to-day basis with details of recently acquired books. Record of all the library patrons has also been created in the KOHA software package. Web based Online Public Access Catalogue (Web OPAC) has been introduced for library data search by users. Web OPAC is a powerful search engine for finding any cataloguing information from KOHA bibliographic database on-line. The resources can be searched based on title of the book, author of the book, subject, and publication or accession number of the book.
Digital Library:
The Digital Library section provides visual media in all formats to support teaching and research. The collection includes DVDs, video tapes (VHS), CD-ROMs and audio cassettes for use by LIET faculty, staff and students within the library. The collection is constantly being updated and expanded to address the specific study and research needs of the LIET community. There are 10 multimedia PCs for use on a walk-in basis in the Digital Library. Users can access Digital Library from anywhere in the campus through IP. An online catalogue of CDs / DVDs and audio cassettes is also available for their reference. The library subscribes to a variety of e-journals including IEEE, Springer, ASME, ASCE and Elsevier. In addition, the library is member of DELNET, National Digital Library and Institution of Engineers India for access to a variety of articles and books. The Institutional Repository an Open Source Software, has been installed to facilitate the users to access multiple resources like e-journals, question papers and model solutions, newspaper clippings and administrative norms / policies of the college.
There are various options available to the learners in Digital Library to access the digital study material instantly.
E-Books & E-Journals (Through Myloft):
All the LIETians have been enrolled as members of Myloft. You may access E-books and E-Journals of your interest from the Nalanda E-Consortium of AKTU from Myloft app through LIET Central Library. Nalanda E-Consortium has 22 (Twenty Two) databases of e-books, e-journals, articles etc. The details of e-resources uploaded on library website.
Video Lectures:
The changing technology is adding new dimensions to the Learning and Teaching pedagogy. The video lectures for various subjects have been hosted on Central Library for the learners. If you ﬁnd interest in any particular subject or topic even apart from your regular curriculum, you may access the videos and learn new things instantly. You may search the videos of your choice through the subject code.
National Digital Library of India (NDLI):
NDLI is one of the signiﬁcant digital learning initiative of the government of India to make knowledge reach everyone at no cost. The NDLI is a virtual repository of learning resources which in addition to providing the basic browsing facilities also provides host of services to the learning community. It serves the academic needs from schools students to the scholars pursuing research. The platform supports many languages and almost all streams of learning in modern day.
LIET NDLI Club:
LIET NDLI club is a unique initiative supported by IITK to bring the students and faculty to the digital learning platform together. The club has a vision to explore the young talent for their skills through various competitive events at institute level as well as at the intra college level. The LIET NDLI club endeavours to collaborate with other NDLI clubs across the country to provide a platform to young minds for sharing their knowledge and skills.
DELNET:
The Central Library offers inter-library loan service to its users for the books and periodicals not available in the LIET Library by procuring them from other libraries. The LIET library has membership of DELNET which facilitate sharing of resources among member libraries. The resources available under DELNET network include Union Catalogue of Books and Periodicals and database of thesis and dissertations.
DOAJ:
Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) is an open database collection of more than 16500 open access journals covering almost all spheres of learning including science, arts, humanities, medicine and social sciences. Learners may enrich their knowledge by accessing latest developments in their ﬁeld of interest through this open access medium.
DOAB:
Directory of Open Access Books (DOAB) is a community driven platform that provides access to scholarly open access books and lets you ﬁnd huge knowledge resources through the open access publishing houses. DOAB is a multi-domain platform that serves all segment of learners for their academic facilitation.
Digital Repository:
Digital repository helps you ﬁnd the reference material related to your core subjects and also provides project work related references.
Previous Question Papers with Solutions: This section provides you with AKTU end term question papers with solutions of last 3-4 years for all subjects relevant to you. You can browse the subjects of your choice for question papers using the subject code Book Requisition Form: LIET Central Library encourages the faculty, staﬀ and students of the Institute to recommend books/periodicals for the library. Faculty/staﬀ recommend books by a book requisition form, which is available in library. Students can recommend books through register which is available at library counter.
Central Library Koha OPAC:
Central Library members may reserve books which are currently on to other members by visiting the library OPAC (Online Public Access Catalogue). The members may login with their credentials and reserve the books. Once the reservation is fulﬁlled, the users will get notiﬁed through e-mail. The reserved copies shall be kept for 24 hours from the time of reservation. It enables speedy search of library catalogue. OPAC enables library users know their checkout status/issue history. No members shall be allowed to have more than 2 books reserved at one time. The library catalogue can be searched by author, title, publisher, keyword etc.
NPTEL:
NPTEL is an Indian online learning platform for university-level science, technology, engineering, and mathematics subjects. It is jointly developed by Indian Institutes of Technology and Indian Institute of Science. The initiative is funded by the Ministry of Human Resource and Development, Government of India. The project’s central idea is to put recorded lectures taught by its member institutes online for open access. It operates one of the most extensive educational YouTube channel covering engineering, basic sciences, some humanities and social science subjects.
Coursera:
is an American massive open online course provider founded in 2012 by Stanford University computer science professors Andrew Ng and Daphne Koller. Coursera oﬀer online courses, popularly known as MOOCs or Massive Open Online Courses, from top universities and companies around the world. In 2021 it was estimated that about 150 universities oﬀered more 4,000 courses through Coursera.
If learners earn a certiﬁcate for each course in a Specialization, they will receive a Specialization certiﬁcate.
Edx:
edX is an American massive open online course (MOOC) provider created by Harvard and MIT. edX is a non-proﬁt organization and runs on the free Open source software platform. More than 150 schools, non-proﬁt organizations, and corporations’ oﬀer courses on the edX website. As of 20 July 2020, there are 3,000 courses available for its 33 million registered students.
edX oﬀers certiﬁcates of successful completion and some courses are credit-eligible. edX oﬀers a variety of ways to take courses, including veriﬁed courses where students have the option to audit the course or to work toward an edX Veriﬁed Certiﬁcate. edX also oﬀers XSeries Certiﬁcates for completion of a bundled set of two to seven veriﬁed courses in a single subject.
IEI:
The Institution of Engineers (India) [IEI] is the largest multi-disciplinary professional body of engineers, established in 1920 with its Headquarters located in Kolkata. IEI, in collaboration with Springer Nature Pvt. Ltd., regularly publishes peer- reviewed international journals in ﬁve Series, covering ﬁfteen engineering disciplines.
Free Open Access Resources (e-journals of AS, CS, EC/EN, ME, CE, MCA, MBA)
Free open access journals covering almost all spheres of learning including science, engineering, computers, management etc. Learners may enrich their knowledge by accessing latest developments in their ﬁeld of interest through this open access resources.
E-Shodhganga:
E-Shodhganga is the digital repository of Indian Electronic Theses and Dissertations set- up by the INFLIBNET Centre. It stands for the reservoir of Indian intellectual output stored in a repository hosted and maintained by the INFLIBNET Centre.
Shodhganga provides a platform for research scholars to deposit their Ph.D. theses and make it available to the entire scholarly community in open access. The repository has the ability to capture, index, store, disseminate and preserve ETDs (Electronic Theses and Dissertations) submitted by the researchers.
E-Pathshala:
The ePathshala, is a joint initiative of Ministry of Education, Govt. of India and National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), has been developed for showcasing and disseminating all educational e-resources including textbooks, audio, video, periodicals, and a variety of other print and non-print materials for Students, Teachers, Parents, researchers and educators.
It provides access to digital textbooks for all classes, graded learning materials and enables participation in exhibitions, contests, festivals, workshops, etc.
Services beyond the Central Library Portal
The Central Library is very spacious and provides you with an ambient environment for studying. You may make the best use of this facility for enriching your knowledge. The collection of books in library not only covers the course curriculum but also includes books of general interest. The Central Library provides you with certain supplementary services which are as given here:
Xerox Facility:
Photocopying facility is available in the LIET central library on payment basis during normal working hours.
Book-Bank Facility:
Book-Bank facility is also available for B.Tech. MBA, MCA & B.Pharma students. One book for each subject will be issued to students for entire semester.
User Awareness Service:
The library takes an active part in the orientation programme organized by the institute for the beneﬁt of new students & faculty/staﬀ in the beginning of academic year. They are taken around the library to familiarize them with various resources and services available for them. .Any use desiring to know more about library resources and service or to learn how to use a particular resource like OPAC, My loft, e-resources etc. should contact the library staﬀ.
Self-Study Hall Facility:
The institute has created big self-study hall having Wi-Fi facility, laptop charging point and fully air-conditioned environment. Students can use this place for the reading with their personal books, laptop after proper entry. Self-study hall is open from 9:00 AM to 7:00 PM all days.
Print Resources:
The LIET central library has a large number of books journals, magazines and newspapers. All books are arranged subject wise & Call No. wise in lending section and all current issues of journals, magazines and newspapers are displayed in the Reference/Reading section of library. List of journals & magazines uploaded on library website.
Institutional Membership and inter library loan:
The Central Library is a member of DELNET and the National Digital Library, enabling resource sharing among libraries. Through DELNET, users can access union catalogues of books and periodicals, as well as databases of theses and dissertations.
Issue Policy
Issuing the books Category : Students
No. of Sources
No. of book(s) – 04
No. of book(s) – 08
No. of CD/DVD etc. – 02
Duration
14 days
One semester*
02 days
Fine
Rs. 05/-per day after the due date.
Rs. 05/-per day after university exam.
Category: Teaching Staff
No. of CD/DVD etc. -02
One current Semester*
02days
Rs. 10/-per day after the due date.
Rs. 10-per day after the due date.
Category: Non-Teaching Staff
No. of book(s) – 02
No. of CD/DVD etc. -01
Important Points
Borrowing facilities is only for the member of the library against QR Coded Identity Card cum Library Card issued to them. Books are issued from the Counter on presenting the QR Coded Identity Card. The Library cum Identity card is Non- Transferable. In case of misuse of Identity card students will be ﬁned Rs. 250/-.
All student members shall produce their Library cum Identity card on the counter at the time of issue and return of the books.
New editions can only be issued after technical processing has been completed.
If only a single copy of any document is available in the library then it will not be issued, the same can only be consulted in the library. However as special case, the permission of Dean (A) is required for issue of the book.
Renewal is not automatic. For renewal, it is necessary that the book shall be presented at the counter. If there is a pending demand for the book, the request for renewal may be turned down.
The list of new arrivals will be displayed on the notice board and kept on display shelf for a week. Thereafter the new arrivals will be available for issue if not meant for Reference.
The defaulters will not be issued books in future.
The library members are responsible for the Identity card issued to them. Loss ID card should be reported to the Librarian immediately. Duplicate ID card will be issued on payment of Rs. 250/-.
All members should return the books borrowed from the library before they proceed on long leave.
Librarian can recall books and publications any time to meet any urgent requirement.
Note:
Books can be reserved for the users in case of non-availability.
Members will have to return the books, irrespective of the date of return, as and when required by the library.
In case of loss of book(s) the user should replace the same book(s) or will pay double cost of the book(s).
New Arrival Books
Plot No. 3, Knowledge Park II, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201306
Follow Us:
Icon-facebook
X-twitter
Icon-linkedin
Icon-instagram-1
Youtube
Admissions
Admissions 2026-27
Apply Now
Why LIET?
Scholarship & Aid
FAQs
Fee Deposits
Download Brochure
Eligibility criteria
How to Apply?
Campus Facilities
Outreach
Student Clubs
Contact Us
List of Admission for Vacant Seats
Important Link
LIET ERP
LIET CRM
Special Counselling (Spot)Round
Careers@LIET
Student Grievance Form
Teaching & Non-Teaching Grievance Form
Anti-Ragging
Women Grievance Cell
IQAC
NBA
Institute Video
24/7 Women Helpline Number -
8130 - 0737-38
For Mental Health Support -
9220228653
Resources
NIRF
DigiLocker
Blog
Journals
CUET (UG) 2026
Swayam
NPTEL
SIDH (Skill India Digital Hub)
INFLIBNET
MOOCs
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
@2025 LLOYD INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY.
All rights reserved
Make an Enquiry
