Mechanical Engineering | LIET, Delhi NCR
Source: https://liet.in/mechanical-engineering

Mechanical Engineering
College is where you are shaped according to the person you want to be in the future.
Established in 2002, the Mechanical Engineering Department focuses on quality education, research, and technological innovation. The department equips students with strong fundamentals in mechanics, energy, and materials, preparing them to design, operate, and maintain modern engineering systems. Through industry-oriented learning and problem-solving approaches, students are trained to adapt, innovate, and lead in diverse engineering and industrial careers. The four-year program is AICTE approved and affiliated with Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technical University, Uttar Pradesh.
Aerospace Engineer
Automotive Engineer
Design Engineer
Production Engineer
Quality Engineer
Robotics Engineer
Vision
The Mechanical Engineering Department of Lloyd Institute of Engineering and Technology, will mold their students into technically sound as well as ethically perfect professionals with innovative leadership qualities and a confident attitude for serving the society with global attention.
Mission
To impart a thorough knowledge of various core engineering subjects to our entire undergraduate and postgraduate students for ascertaining their fundamental strength in Mechanical engineering.
To expose our students to a curriculum consisting of modern laboratories, interdisciplinary subjects and industrial training in such a way that they get international exposure in world class industries.
To train our students with modern drafting & analysis software for developing their computational capabilities as well as promoting higher studies and research works.
Things To Know First
LIET is one of India’s leading engineering colleges, known for industry-ready education and strong career outcomes.
Scholarship Up To 100%
Placement-Ready Culture from Day One
Learn, Build, Innovate with AI/ML
Learn from experienced faculty and industry experts
Apply Now
Placement
Achieve Your Career Goals with Our 100% Placement Guarantee. Secure the Highest Salary Packages in the Field.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
Preparation: To prepare learner with sound foundation in the mathematical, scientific and engineering fundamentals.
Core Competence: To prepare Learner to use modern tools effectively in order to solve real life problems.
Breadth: To prepare learner for a successful career in Indian and Multinational Organisations and to excel in their postgraduate studies
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
Identify, Formulate and Analyze complex Engineering problems in Thermal Engineering, Design Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering and automobile Engineering, and Energy
An ability to find out, articulate the local industrial problems and solve with the use of mechanical engineering tools for realistic outcomes.
An ability of collaborative learning to find out cost-effective, optimal solution for social problems.
Empowering Minds, Changing Lives, Shaping Futures
Syllabus
Mechanical Engineering Labs
Workshop Practice Lab
Fluid Mechanics Lab
Applied Thermodynamics Lab
Python Lab
Material Testing Lab
Manufacturing Processes Lab
Measurement & Metrology Lab
“When the world stands still, engineering moves it forward.”
