Message from Dean - Research | Lloyd Institute, Delhi NCR
Source: https://liet.in/message-from-dean-research

Research & Development Cell
Message From Dean
From Leadership to Learning – A Message that Matters.
Prof. (Dr.) S.P. Dwivedi
Dean (R&D) and Professor
Dr. Dwivedi is currently Professor and Dean (R&D) at LLOYD Institute of Engineering and Technology, Gr. Noida. He has published more than
250 research papers in SCI/SCOPUS indexed Journals. Prof. (Dr.) S.P. Dwivedi has been recognized by Stanford University’s list (published by Elsevier) of the World’s Top 2% of the Most-Cited Scientists in Single Year Citation Impact 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025. (MATERIALS SCIENCE; MECHANICAL ENGINEERING). He has also honored with the SPRINGER Gold Medal – Institution of Engineers – December 27, 2023 and moreover, he has honored with the SPRINGER IIM-SAIL Gold Medal – The Indian Institute of Metals – November 20, 2024.
Dr. Dwivedi also honored
Best Teacher Award
from the
Vice Chancellor of Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technical University on Teacher’s day
for his extraordinary teaching and research in 2020.
Dr. Dwivedi has about 20 years of rich experience in research and academics.
Dr. Dwivedi is also the Editor of Various Journals like
Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part E (Sage).
Dr. Dwivedi is also a reviewer of several reputed international journals.
Dean (R&D) Message
“First of All, I welcome you to the Lloyd Institute of Engineering & Technology (LIET)!”
I am thrilled to share the innovative spirit and academic excellence that define our institution. Our Research & Development (R&D) department is dedicated to fostering a culture of creativity, collaboration, and cutting-edge research that addresses the pressing challenges of our time.
We recognize that great innovations often result from collaborative efforts. Our department actively seeks partnerships with industry leaders, government agencies, and academic institutions worldwide. These collaborations provide our students and faculty with invaluable resources, diverse perspectives, and real-world experiences that enrich their research endeavors. Our students are the cornerstone of our R&D activities. We are dedicated to providing them the tools, guidance, and opportunities they need to become the next generation of innovators and thought leaders. Through hands-on projects, internships, and research assistantships, students are empowered to transform their ideas into impactful solutions.
