Research Promotion Initiatives | Lloyd Institute, Delhi NCR
Source: https://liet.in/research-promotion

Skip to content
LIET Connect
E-Brochure
WhatsApp
admissions@liet.in
+91 9821582662
Apply Now 2026-27
Online Payment
Click here
Research & Innovation
Research Promotion
Driving research and innovation to solve real-world challenges through technology and collaboration.
Research plays a vital role in the success of any institution. Fundamental research in the field of engineering is a national challenge. Quality research in technology is the need of the hour for sustainable growth. Lloyd Institute of Engineering & Technology (LIET) since its establishment, has a culture of nurturing research abilities at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
In order to provide a strong platform to the researchers, academicians and scholars, Lloyd Institute of Engineering & Technology (LIET) regularly organizes various national and international conferences, seminars, workshops and colloquium. These initiatives enable the stakeholders to build their capacity for critical examination and sound judgment, thereby facilitating them to contribute to the existing body of knowledge. The institute has a Lloyd Skills Centre and Lloyd In-House well-furnished Workshops for research, e-vehicle, drones, and battery laboratories. Under industry-institute-interaction the institute has E-Cell, Lloyd Technology Business Incubation Foundation (LTBIF) for carrying out advanced research activities. The institute also has centre of excellence with the set objectives and advantages for carrying out research which impacts the overall research culture in the institute.
R&D Appraisal Policy
Plot No. 3, Knowledge Park II, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201306
Follow Us:
Icon-facebook
X-twitter
Icon-linkedin
Icon-instagram-1
Youtube
Admissions
Admissions 2026-27
Apply Now
Why LIET?
Scholarship & Aid
FAQs
Fee Deposits
Download Brochure
Eligibility criteria
How to Apply?
Campus Facilities
Outreach
Student Clubs
Contact Us
List of Admission for Vacant Seats
Important Link
LIET ERP
LIET CRM
Special Counselling (Spot)Round
Careers@LIET
Student Grievance Form
Teaching & Non-Teaching Grievance Form
Anti-Ragging
Women Grievance Cell
IQAC
NBA
Institute Video
24/7 Women Helpline Number -
8130 - 0737-38
For Mental Health Support -
9220228653
Resources
NIRF
DigiLocker
Blog
Journals
CUET (UG) 2026
Swayam
NPTEL
SIDH (Skill India Digital Hub)
INFLIBNET
MOOCs
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
@2025 LLOYD INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY.
All rights reserved
Make an Enquiry
