upcoming conference - Lloyd Engineering College
Source: https://liet.in/upcoming-conference

Skip to content
LIET Connect
E-Brochure
WhatsApp
admissions@liet.in
+91 9821582662
Apply Now 2026-27
Online Payment
Click here
LIET
Upcoming Conference
A hub of knowledge and innovation, empowering confident, skilled, and future-ready learners.
Previous Conference
FMIC-SMCI 2026
We are delighted to invite you to the
“First Multidisciplinary International Conference on Sustainability, Advanced Materials, Manufacturing Technologies, and Computational Intelligent Approaches for Multifunctional Biomedical and Engineering Applications (FMIC-SMCI -2026)”,
scheduled to occur tentative in June 2026.
The conference, which is being organized by the Lloyd Technology and Business Incubator Foundation (LTBIF) and the Lloyd Research and Incubation Centre (LRIC) of LIET Greater Noida, will provide a global forum for showcasing and discussing ground-breaking advancements in a variety of scientific and engineering fields.
Innovations in lean and agile models, industrial engineering, sustainable manufacturing processes, and the new paradigms of Industry 4.0, Industry 5.0, and smart manufacturing will all be covered, along with developments in materials science and characterization with an emphasis on sustainable, structural, and non-structural applications in testing and construction. In order to create creative, clever, and sustainable solutions for upcoming biomedical and engineering applications,
FMIC-SMCI -2026
seeks to bring together top academics, researchers, industry professionals, and policymakers from around the world to promote interdisciplinary collaboration, knowledge exchange, and meaningful dialogue.
IMPORTANT DATES
Paper Submission Starts
10th December 2025
Paper Submission Closes
26th May 2026
Registration Open
20th December 2025
Registration Closes
10th June 2026
Conference Dates
27th-28th June 2026
AIM & SCOPE
is intended to be a leading global platform for showcasing cutting-edge research, game-changing inventions, and game-changing technologies from a variety of scientific and technical fields. The conference aims to promote interdisciplinary discussion, improve cooperation between academia, business, and government, and advance the use of intelligent and integrative methods to address global issues. The goal of
is to bring together various streams of knowledge and innovation, advance scientific understanding, and create intelligent, sustainable solutions for a better future. It welcomes contributions that bridge traditional engineering domains with emerging areas like artificial intelligence, machine learning, data science, robotics, green technologies, smart manufacturing, and sustainable engineering. By bringing together several fields of study and innovation, FMIC-SMCI -2026 seeks to:
To create awareness among the Global society of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
To define the role of an individual in the successful implementation of SDGs.
To develop a framework for the achievement of the SDG goals.
To connect industry, academia, and governance with the SDGs.
To discuss and understand the impact of education on the achievement of SDG goals.
To explain the role of research, innovation and collaboration in the implementation and achievement of SDG goals.
CONFERENCE HIGHLIGHTS
A dynamic platform that combines cutting-edge research, useful inventions, and interdisciplinary collaboration is offered by
. Highlights of the conference include:
PLENARY SESSIONS
Prominent scholars, business executives, and decision-makers from throughout the world will provide keynote remarks.
TECHNICAL TRACKS
Data science, artificial intelligence, smart manufacturing, renewable energy, advanced materials, and sustainable technologies are all covered in thematic sessions.
SEMINARS & PANELS
Engaging seminars and debates with experts on topics like Industry 0, IoT, Green Engineering, and the Circular Economy.
PUBLICATIONS
Selected high-caliber papers will be published in Scopus-indexed conference proceedings, journals (SCI/ SCIE/ ESCI/ WoS/ Scopus), or Scopus-indexed book series.
INNOVATION SHOWCASE
A venue for researchers and startups to display state-of-the art goods, prototypes, and technology.
YOUNG RESEARCHER FORUM
Specialized meetings with networking and mentorship opportunities for scholars in their early careers.
Plot No. 3, Knowledge Park II, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201306
Follow Us:
Icon-facebook
X-twitter
Icon-linkedin
Icon-instagram-1
Youtube
Admissions
Admissions 2026-27
Apply Now
Why LIET?
Scholarship & Aid
FAQs
Fee Deposits
Download Brochure
Eligibility criteria
How to Apply?
Campus Facilities
Outreach
Student Clubs
Contact Us
List of Admission for Vacant Seats
Important Link
LIET ERP
LIET CRM
Special Counselling (Spot)Round
Careers@LIET
Student Grievance Form
Teaching & Non-Teaching Grievance Form
Anti-Ragging
Women Grievance Cell
IQAC
NBA
Institute Video
24/7 Women Helpline Number -
8130 - 0737-38
For Mental Health Support -
9220228653
Resources
NIRF
DigiLocker
Blog
Journals
CUET (UG) 2026
Swayam
NPTEL
SIDH (Skill India Digital Hub)
INFLIBNET
MOOCs
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
@2025 LLOYD INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY.
All rights reserved
Make an Enquiry
